---
title: "Crosser walk car park"
type: location
---

Are you from time to time put in a situation where you have to walk, but feel unable and unprepared for the task. Well don't stress one moment longer! This walk is suited to all levels of active "walkers". While you're practicing the art of walking you can ponder the depts of drakes pool, or look out to the road and think forward to the day when you can finally afford a car and forget walking forever, or wonder to what that odd noise coming from the bush is- possibly beautiful wild life (WARNING; If the noise you hear turns out to be the youths of either of the local towns do not approach them or make direct eye contact.) If you are just a beginner at the walking game, we do suggest that all your attention be focused on your feet (left-right-left-right...), we will not be held responsible for injury cause by simple oversight. We do hope that all the peoples of this world(except Mexicans) will enjoy this gift we share, and we believe that in time all nations will arrive to our simple path, and we can all walk together in peace,love and unity to a brighter tomorrow. If you are unable to walk our walk i would suggest that you form your own walk, if the know how to do this is not in your position, just close your eyes and ask the good lord for his/her help- there is always help from above. Remember-time is an abstract concept created by carbon based life forms in order to monitor their on going decay, the only real time is now, so come on down today and enjoy what little life you have left. Have a nice day and walk on.
