---
title: "Shopping in Palm Beach"
type: section
---

A favorite pastime among vacationers and Florida residents is shopping-from the Panhandle to the southern tip of Key West-Florida is dripping with sensational shopping spots throughout. It is safe to say that Palm Beach, Florida holds the record for diverse boutiques and stores. Regardless of the age group you are traveling with, the warm weather and shop-clustered streets of Palm Beach make for an entertaining and enjoyable time.
Popular and easily accessed spots include the shops of City Place-located off Clematis Street. Here you will find a variety of stores including Lucky Brand Jeans, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic and the unique favorite-Anthropologie. Anthroplogie has been revered as a City Place favorite for years-providing customers with everything needed to furnish a home, cook an ethnic meal, dress a grandchild or simply buy a gift.
After browsing the area, head east on Clematis Street and peak in the windows of small shops. There are plenty of pizza restaurants to choose from, and the breeze from the nearby intra-coastal waterway will keep you cool.
Worth Avenue caters to luxury seekers with stores such as Cartier, Michael Kors, Max Mara and Saks Fifth Avenue. Surrounding hotels include The Ritz Carlton and The Breakers.
Taking the highway south about twenty minutes will bring you to Atlantic Avenue in Delray Beach. Be sure to go east and you will discover the busy and pedestrian-friendly stretch of shops that lead directly to the beach. With privately owned art shops-displaying and selling original local artwork-it is no wonder Atlantic Avenue is popular among artists and musicians. Every year there are a number of festivals known as Art & Jazz events in which a plethora of tents are set up along the street and display artistic paraphernalia for sale. The Delray Beach Downtown Marketing Cooperative organizes the events, which are free to the public. Driving south Of Atlantic Avenue for about ten minutes will bring you to the town of Boca Raton-where the luxurious shops of Mizner Park offer upscale clothing and exquisite original artwork. Every Saturday the Boca Raton Green Market is organized in the Royal Palm Plaza lot. The selling of fresh flowers, produce, baked goods, and arts and crafts lasts from 8 a.m. until 1 p.m. Followed by live music, the outdoor market is a safe and relaxing place for the whole family. Not to mention, French and Italian restaurants surround the area, so a delicious meal is never too far.
