# Hotels Intro in Byron Bay

*Australiaandpacific > Australia > Newsouthwales > Byronbay > Hotels Intro*

There are ample opportunities for guests to relax and enjoy themselves at **Byron Bay hotels**.** **A very popular tourist destination in New South Wales, Australia, Byron Bay is famous for its sunrises and sunsets, as well as the gorgeous beaches that represent the Australian way of life. Given below are details on some of the Byron Bay Hotels.

**Breakfree**

Those looking for a different and refreshing form of accommodation can always look to Breakfree. The Breakfree Eco Beach Resort was built for no frills accommodation – sustainable methods of housing guests in the form of saving water by not changing sheets and towels everyday, or using organic and plant-based soap and detergents. The resort itself is located very near the main shopping district of Byron Bay, ensuring that protection of the environment does not have to come at the cost of convenience. Rooms are available with the options of studio apartments to two room apartments for families. Tourists can also head to the tour desk to take a look at the sightseeing options at a small cost. Room charges starts from AUD$190 per night.

**Casuarina Lodge**

The Casuarina Lodge is one hotel that typifies the true essence of Australia – a chalet-like, wooden structure found in the middle of the rainforest hinterland of Byron Bay. The hotel itself is located in the outskirts of the busy city, providing a true escape from the chaos of urban life and a chance to relax in the wonderful Australian sun. Guests can choose to enjoy the afternoon lazing by the pool or head out to the beaches nearby and spend the evenings sipping a flute of bubbly as the sun goes down behind the rocks of the Bay. Wilson’s at the Lodge serves up some great cuisine, and the facilities like spas in the hotel provide the ultimate relaxation. Be sure to book early though – the exclusivity of the Lodge provides only 18 private suites for guests. Room charges starts from AUD$215 per night.

**Byron at Byron**

One of the newer establishments at the Bay, the Byron at Byron is one of the snazzy new resort-hotels that have been springing up in the recent years. The key difference that sets the Byron apart is the themed resort that brings about a modern feel to the Bay. Rooms are designed in a clean cut, modern manner – white walls, minimalistic furniture and a liberal use of timber creates a resort feel to the hotel. Walk along the boardwalks in the evenings, admiring the famous sunsets of Byron Bay, or take a morning walk out to the rainforests that surround the place. Afternoons should be reserved exclusively for the beach, considering the fact that the Tarrow Beach is less than a 5 minute walk away from the hotel. Room charges starts from AUD$345 per night.

**SummerHills Retreat Byron Bay**

Established in 2001, SummerHills Retreat has maintained their reputation for providing elegant accommodation in a quiet eco-friendly location, with unsurrpassed mountain views and exceptional service. The retreat itself is set on 113 acres of tropical forest, with lush bush walks and scenery, a saltwater pool and snooker room, this retreat is the premier Byron Bay hinterland resort. Guests feel truly cocooned in their own seclusion and privacy, something that sets this retreat apart from anywhere else in Byron Bay. Something else that is special about this place, and that is that there are only 4 suites, providing a truly quiet place to relax and get away from the hustle and bustle of daily life. All suites are freshly renovated and all feature a spa bath, panoramic views of either mountains, tropical gardens, forest or all of these. Rooms are spacious, modern and welcoming. Take a quiet bushwalk along one of the 2 walking trails (2km & 4km) and experience being part of nature. Be within a few minutes of excellent eateries and shopping in the vibrant village of Bangalow. And with Byron Bay only a short 14 minute drive, a beach sunset, an afternoon swim or an early morning scuba dive are within easy reach. All 4 suites are self contained with a kitchen, spa and air conditioning, and tariffs start from AUD$299 per night.
