# Baku Airport

*Europe > Azerbaijan > Baku > Bakuairport*

Bina international airport is the busiest in the Caucasus. Thanks to the EBRD and the German Government, it has had recent investment in upgrading navigation aids that have improved safety for air traffic (the airport was the scenario for several accidents, the last serious one with a B707 in 1995). The airport had a lot of construction work in the 1980's, but the collapse of the USSR resulted in the suspension of the works, with the two main terminals being left incomplete. Increased traffic led to a second runway being opened for wide-bodied aircraft in 1995. The current international terminal was opened in 1993 with precarious conditions. In June 1999, after construction work that seemed to eternalize, the renovated passenger facilities were finally inaugurated. 

The airport is approximately 25 kilometres east from downtown Baku (travel time: approx. 40 minutes), one kilometre off the Baku-Mardakan road. If you are coming from Baku you will see the access road on your left, in front of an open air market. The central building is the domestic and CIS terminal (use the left entrance for Nakhchivan flights). To the left side is located the international terminal, and in front of it, across the often chaotic parking lot, you'll find the airport hotel. 

Avoid taxis offered by drivers in the customs area, they will cost much more than those just outside the airport building. Choose a licensed car with a TAXI sign. The trip from the airport to the centre of the city costs about 40000 manat (less than 10 Euro). 

If you don't have a lot of luggage, you have the alternative of taking Bus No. 16 to the city, which costs approximately 2000 manat, the bus-stop is just outside the arrivals zone and leaves you at the AZAL office in Baku (on 28th May st). There are several other buses that stop just in front of the market, if you are willing to walk a few minutes (see the airport map). Hotel Courtesy Cars: Almost all the major hotels will arrange to meet you at the airport for 10-20 Euro and will have a driver holding up a sign with your name on it. Car rental is companies are available on the international arrivals area (north terminal). They provide self drive cars, cars with chauffeur, transfers and also Baku-Tbilisi transfers. 

The airport code for Baku is "BAK" (this will be of use in the West, with less experienced travel agency staff, who never heard of Azerbaijan.) On arrival, when crossing the border always declare to have some cash with you, since you cannot leave the country with more money than you brought in. If you want to get manats on arrival, there is a cash machine on the international terminal, 1st floor. 

As usual in off-shore oil areas, you also have a good charter service for helicopters and aeroplanes available at Bina airport (contact Azalaero, tel. 242018 or Azalavia, tel. 243714) When leaving the waiting areas are rather basic, but there is a passable 1st class lounge that just may save your day if you have the right tickets or cards.
