---
title: "reza"
type: poi
address: "N35,taghavist ,ferdousi st,ferdousi  sq,tehran Iran"
email: "history_abs@yahoo.com"
opening_hours: "iran"
phone: "66728950-6"
type: "Landmarks"
---

The people and land of Iran

Present day Iran is a part of a much larger geographical unit called the Iranian plateau. This natural unit, although climatically and biologically diverse, has a number of common characteristics that have led to, and perpetuated, a kind of “cultural unity”.

Iran today is the inheritor of a reality that is known as the “Iranian world”. Human civilization has immensely benefited from the ingenuity and creativity of the people that lived in this land. By communicating with the local geography and nature, they managed to gradually build and develop their civilization and culture and by doing so enduringly influence the course of history and human development. Such influence is still dynamically present. One is inspired by the ability of this eons old civilization and culture to maintain its integrity. Native rulers and the Iranian people never lost faith in the destiny of the Iranian nation. Challenges and disasters served to solidify national resolve. The nation, never wavered, and remained true to its lofty ideals.
The evidence relating to the first cultural behaviors of man in Iran also points to the manufacturing of assorted stone implements that pertain to the Paleolithic period; starting 200,000 years ago. There is ample evidence of human settlement in many parts of Iran. Communities thrived around the Urmia Lake in the North West and in Shiraz in the South West, also the south eastern shores of the Caspian and further to the east in southern Khorasan.
Various sites, such as Kashf-Rood in Khorasan, Sistan, the Maraghe fields, the caves and shelters of Khoram-Abad valley, Homiyan in Koohdasht, Helilan valley in Lorestan, Maydasht caves in Bisotoon and Kermanshah have yielded evidence of the cultural life of Paleolithic Man.

By the end of this period Mesolithic Man -- aside from hunting and gatherin -- is storing some of his food, thus setting the stage for extensive cultural and economic developments. Later huge steps are taken leading to settlements and production.
Evidence pertaining to the above stage have been recovered from the grounds and caves of Khoram-Abad Valley, around the Kor river in Fars and on the outskirts of the provincial city of Behshar.

Moving away from the Paleolithic stage, around 12000 BC the inhabitants of Near East, including those living on the Iranian Plateau reached the Neolithic stage of their cultures and civilizations. This stage is characterized by farming, domestication of farm animals, and the final metamorphosis of townships. The production of clay, increased agricultural and cattle farming expertise, improved architectural techniques, higher level of industrial and vocational mastery are the other characteristics of the period. It must also be mentioned that cultural spheres in the Iranian Plateau gradually became distinguished from one another. The Silak hills, Cheshme Ali and Hesar in the central plains of Iran, Gian hills, Goran, Sar-Abb, Goodeen and Ganj Dareh in the West, also Ali-Kosh, Choga-Mish, and Susa in the southeast, as well as Ba-Gavan in Fars are the main bedrocks of western Asian culture and civilization in Iran.

The Neolithic stage lasted well into 5000 BC. At the end of the Neolithic stage, what is known as present day Iran along with the rest of its surrounding plateau in West Asia entered a period in which metal was mass-produced, transition was made from townships to cities, writing, measures and signs were invented, helping to develop trade, architecture, industry, recording of past events, literature and the arts. During this stage Iran with its geographical, climatic, and cultural diversity, in an integrated fashion, managed to greatly influence all aspects of cultures and civilizations around it. The emergence of the powerful and enduring Elamite rule in a substantial portion of the southwest – with the 5000 year old city of Susa as its inimitable gift to the ages – alongside other Iranian cities such as the burnt city in Sistan, the extended fields of Halil-Rood in Jeroft, the specialized smelting and metal recovery township in Arisman, all point to the role played by the Persian civilization and its contribution to the development of science and industry. The people’s deep devotion to spirituality, religiosity, art, and contemplation came together to manifest in the construction and creation of glorious religious and stately works and buildings such as Ziggurat Chogha Zanbil, or artistic works of clay. The above stage included the important Iron and Bronze Ages and lasted well into first Millennium BC.
Midpoint through the first Millennium BC, with the arrival of the Arian tribes, Iranian culture, and civilization reached new heights of excellence, power, and creativity, lasting more than 1000 years. The Achaemenian dynasty, or the rule which emerged from the land of Persia, extended to cover the totality of the old world. It also managed to control the pulse of the region’s culture and civilization for 200 years. The remnants of Takht-e Jamshid, Pasargadae, and Naghsh-e Rostam amply showcase the Iranian people’s religious, God seeking, intelligent, and resourceful spirit.

The Achaemenian mastery of statecraft, political, social, and economic openness continues to inspire the world of politics and good governance. The architectural ingenuity, masterful engineering, and the artistic prowess of Iranians in that period came together to greatly advance human civilization. Mention must also be made of their mastery over the region’s trade and connective routes, influence over the governance and the leadership style of lands under their rule, the establishment of a financial and monetary system and the circulation of coins.
In the same period magnificent works of art were created. Wood, stone, and ivory carvings as well as glass and metal objet d’art and textiles came to rank amongst the most magnificent artistic and technical achievements of the old world. The grandeur and fame of the Persian rulers of the known civilized world was so awe inspiring that after Alexander attacked Persia, the new rulers presented themselves as Achaemenid kings and inheritors of the Achaemenian tradition.
Despite short disruptions – resulting from the Alexander of Macedonia’s assault – another Persian government, this time from the northeast and known as Parthians took the helm of Near Eastern culture and civilization in their hands and ruled for more than 400 years. They competed with Rome to rule the then known world. Their nationalistic innovations, drive to expand and promote their culture and civilization, success in establishing new trade routes, organization of a successful commercial, monetary and financial system, script, writing, art and a network of major cities including Balkh, Nesa, Rayy, Hamadan and Ctesiphon were instrumental in the establishment of a new global empire. Innovation in architectural design, the use of arches for gateways and residential spaces, the use of terraces overlooking courtyards, introduction of arching terraces in place of the Achaemanian pillared terraces, also the use of such materials as adobe, bricks and a gypsum mortar produced and showcased a new golden age of Persian architecture.
Extensive political, military, and economic contact between the Parthians alongside their extensive boarders with the Romans on the one hand and their equally extensive ties with the Kushan dynasty, their other neighbor to the east, was a measure of their might and national organization. Other evidence, including the production of diverse earthenware – with their increasing use of glazing – glass and stone objects, etc. all point to their ability to mass produce goods, as well as their access to lucrative markets, commercial vibrancy and increasing public welfare and treasure.

At the beginning of third century AD, another dynasty rises from the land of Persia to revive the memory of the Achaemenian Empire. The vigorous, centralized and nationally cohesive rule of Ardashir Babakan.

In a short span of time, the new dynasty managed to overcome all regional opposition and solidify its rule over the land of Persia. It ruled close to 400 years and like Ashkanian before it, worked to safeguard the Persian identity, vehemently competed with Rome in the west and suppressed the invading hordes to the east. In third century AD, following a series of battles with the Persians, the Romans were routed and three Roman emperors were either killed or captured. Shapur I immortalized these battlefield victories in extensive rock carvings in Naghsh-e Rostam and rock relief at Tang-Chogun, Nagh-e Rostam and Dara-Beghard (all in Fars). The establishment of numerous cities, architectural and engineering creativity, and the smart use of gypsum mortar in the construction of stately and grand buildings are striking characteristics of the period (Ghale-Dokhtar, Kakh-e Firoozabad, the cross shaped building and the temple of Anahiti in Bishapur, Kakh-e Sarvestan, and Tagh-e Kasra).

The use of circular plans for city building (the City of Firooz-Abad, establishment of an academy in the city of Gondeshapur (Khuzestan), promotion of arts, vocations and industrial specialization, establishment of trade networks, an effective monetary system, the regular minting of gold and silver coins were achievements that later helped with the emergence and spread of Islam. These achievements continue to inspire and enrich Persian identity. The Sasanid prospered by constructing extensive hydro-installations, road networks, bridges, defense installations, religious temples, sumptuous official buildings, and by developing their engineering and architectural skills. They also manufactured exquisite textile, metal (especially silver) and glass pieces, coins, seals, etc. which today adorn many highly regarded museums around the world. Persian coins, carried by caravans and exchanged throughout many trade routes, found their way to the four corners of the old world; including China, Japan, Korea, the Far East, Central Europe and Scandinavia. This is an indication of the global reach of Sassanian.
In seventh century AD with the emergence of Islam and its adoption by Persians, it quickly spread through the Near East – especially in Persia and Central Asia. The Iranians contributed their wealth and might in support of another divine messenger. Their steadfastness and perceptiveness resulted in the birth of a dynamic school, from the very heart of the Islamic society, called Shi^ism. Thus Islamic thought and knowledge, in its Persian manifestation and bedrock, experienced many highs and lows through the centuries.
The emancipation of Persians from the rule of the Caliphs, the growth and spread of the Farsi language and the establishment of nationalistic rules were reason enough for the Persian ingenuity and their restless soul to compel different Islamic cultural and civilization spheres to accommodate them.
Although present Iranian borders are much smaller than what they were in centuries past, but are broad enough to accommodate a glorious chapter of Iran and Islam. Despite the many catastrophes and harms inflicted -- such as the onslaughts by the Mongol hordes – Iran managed to remain at the very heart of artistic and cultural innovation in the Islamic world. The construction of terraced courtyards -- as well as four terraced courtyards --, arching roofs, enlarged domes and minarets, architectural decorations such as plaster ornamentations, tiles and painted designs, the use of decorative stones and lighting effects reflecting off smooth beds of multicolored tiles and spiraling and twisting plaster works were strokes of genius that continue to mesmerize.
The spiritual aura of Masjid-e Jameh, Masjid-e Shah, and Masjid-e Sheikh Lotfollah mosques in the city of Isfahan, or the tranquility and elegance of Iranian walled gardens, including the Bagh-e Fin garden in the city of Kashan and Bagh-e Shahzade- Mahan in the city of Kerman are undeniable.
To those are added the art of boring Kanats, constructing bridges and waterscapes such as pol-e Khajoo and Seio-se pol, bulwarks, towers and defensive positions such as the ones found in Ghal-e Hassan Sabbah fortress in Alamut, Gerd-Kooh in Semnan, Bam Citadel, and the bulwarks surrounding Gorgan. Mention must also be made of grand Iranian bazaars. Great bazaars, such as the Tabriz Bazaar and Gheisarieh Bazaar in Lar were an integral part of the social, political, economic and cultural life of the day. They also provided a safe location for the fabrication of different goods. Iranians were also master wood crafters. They masterfully fabricated ornamental wooden doors, windows, chests, pulpits and blinds that were mostly used in mosques, gravesites, and holy shrines – such as Ashhad-ul-Reza in the city of Toos, Khorasan or Hazarat-e-Masomeh shrine in the city of Qom. Decorations adorning the interiors and exteriors of palaces and mansions such as the Chehel-Sotoon palace, Alighapoo in the city of Isfahan and Kakh-e-Golestan in Tehran are equally masterful.
Road networks, bridges and way stations as found for example in Pol-e-Shekaste, Pol-e-Dokhtar and Pol-e-Ghamishan in Lorestan, Robat-e-Mosharaf in Khorasan, and the unrivalled Shah-Abasi Caravansaries served as arteries. Hydro-facilities, dams, canals, and Kanats were all architectural achievements of the culture and civilization of Islamic Iran.

As for artistic and practical handicrafts, with the expansion of the weaving industry and the production of textiles and the weaving of small and large silk and wool carpets in places such as Kashan, Qom, Isfahan, as well as exquisite ceramic pieces manufactured in Neishaboor, Kashan, Soltan- Abad and Mashad, Iranian creativity shined through.
Later, gold hued ceramic pieces and tiles were produced. To this are added gold, silver, copper, and bronze vessels and pieces (including those festooned with silver).
As for literature; production of manuscripts and illustrated books – including hand written editions of Shah-nameh, Kelile-O-Demneh and Maghamat-e Hariri -- incorporation of calligraphy – mainly to inscribe Koranic verses, Hadith, and poems of poets who wrote in Persian; on the face of building or different objects such as the tablets found in Masjid-e-Shah or Masjid-e-Sheikh-Lotfollah mosques in Isfahan – different albums, including Shah-nameh Bayasanghari and the Moragha-e-Golshan albums,
gave vent to Persian ingenuity and Iran-o-Islamic mysticism.

Finally, creation and development of many metropolitan cities such as Isfahan, Shiraz, Tabriz, Tehran, etc. nurtured a plethora of Iranian communities and they prospered as centers of artistic, literary and scientific creativity.

type: Landmarks



tel: 66728950-6

openingHours: iran

address: N35,taghavist ,ferdousi st,ferdousi sq,tehran Iran

email: history_abs@yahoo.com

[back to Sights](..)
