# Eating out

*Asia > Middleeast > Kuwait > Eating Out*

Kuwait has few traditional menus inherit to the country alone, but brings tastes from all over the Middle East, India, Egypt, China, Thialand, and the Medditerranian. People joke there are two things to do in Kuwait, "Eat and Shop"! Let me say they do both well. Along with a variety of **American fast food**, for those of you craving a good ole' cheeseburger, there are literally hundreds of restaurants to choose from ranging from the very expensive to the dirt cheap. In addition to good food, restaurants like the **Palm Palace** offer outdoor tents, shisha smoking, bread making in an old stone oven, and, after your meal, a bit of Arabain coffee served on pillows while your server plays Middle Eastern music pounding the beat and grinding the coffee in a large wooden bowl. For just a moment you are transported to another place and time. This is an experience not to be missed! 

I learned of many of the following restaurants from reading Aron Johnston's book *Lost in Kuwait, A Travelers Guide to Good Eats & Cheap Thrills*, and after a personal visit, I heartily recommend each. For those of you craving a little more than a cheeseburger **Al Boom Grill**, SAS Hotel, is an "unforgettable dining experince" with first class service, steaks, and seafood. Be prepared to spend some cash, though. **Casar Sultan**,Medan Hawalli, has wonderful decor and great schwarma, another must try for those wanting typical Arabian food. Also on the list is **Five Star Thai**,Kuwait City, offering beautifully prepared Thai food in an elegant setting. On a less expensive note try **Fresh**,Salmiya, called a "clean your plate kind of place". Fresh serves big portions and an impressive variety of Arabian bread. For the homemade taste of Iranian food go to **Khan Salar**, Salmiya. Wondering what Iranian food is? Think a variety of chicken, beef and lamb with yogurt sauces and aromatic rice dishes. Come hungry since portions are plentiful. **Noodles**, Salmiya, has great chinese food and a fun atmosphere. Sit back and enjoy after a hectic day of shopping. **Sala Om-Habib**, Kuwait City, offers an authenitic atmosphere where you will quickly feel the true culture of Kuwait. It prides itself in good Middle Eastern food which it easily accomplishes in a rich environment. My favorite, Indian food, can be found in the leisurely atmosphere at **The Dar Bar**, Benid Al Gar. You can also watch the cooks at work through a little window. For a sightseeing adventure as well as a meal, visit **The Horizon Le Cafe**, Kuwait Towers. Be sure to eat from the assorted buffet while watching the wonderful view 82 meters up. This restaurant is best described as an "upscale" coffee shop. Last on the list, try the **Turkish Bakery**, Old Ardiya, for a traditional cheese fatayer and assorted bakery goods. It's a little shop run by warm friendly people, and you will definetly walk away with a little culture from the experience. 

I would also recommend a good exploration of the country, don't worry it's small, as there are many good restaurants too numerous to mention here. Good Luck and Bon Apetite! Can't wait to see you there, Cole! Love Theresa
