---
title: "Practical Information in Tallinn"
type: section
---

Introducing Tallinn: a medieval modern city

A ‘medieval’ architectural heritage has always been a valuable cultural asset treasured by a European city – wherever it might be located. Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, is not an exception. Recorded on the world map in 1154 for the first time, this place of 400,000 inhabitants is visibly proud to be known as one of the best-preserved medieval cities in Northern Europe, if not the best. As a recognition of this undisputed fact, Tallinn was officially chosen to be the Culture Capital of Europe in 2011.
Back in 1997, six years after Estonia re-gained its independence, UNESCO made a decision to add Tallinn’s Old Town to the organisation’s World Heritage list. In nowadays, Tallinn is not only an economically advancing city but also a popular tourist destination. In 2004, the year when Estonia joined the European Union (EU), Tallinn welcomed almost 2,690,000 foreign visitors. At that time however there were signs for the city to become a European stag parties’ centre, but the Estonian capital had successfully overcome such a danger.
So, what is Tallinn all about? It comes as a surprise that the city’s modern sites (highscrapers or shopping malls) seem like a logical continuation of the past, i.e. the Old Town’s cobblestone narrow streets, the Raekoja plats (the Town Hall Square), the Latin Quarter or even numerous buildings of the Soviet period.
During the history, Estonia has been subsequently ruled by the Teutonic knights, Denmark, Sweden and the Russian Empire. It had a brief period of independence (from 1918 until 1940) that ended with the country’s forceful incorporation into the Soviet Union. Then Estonia was occupied by the Nazi Germany and re-occupied by the USSR after the World War II.
Nevertheless and very much on the contrary of the turmoil in the past, the modern Estonia represents an integral part of the EU. Indeed, it is a forward-looking country. Standing on a Toompea hill’s viewing platform, a few meters from the Estonian Parliament Riigikogu, one can see a magnificent panorama of the city, catching the Nunna, Sauna and Kuljala Towers, St. Nicholas Church and Tallinn’s business district. Down the hill, very close to the Town Hall Square, there is a unique pharmacy – continuously operating from 1422. Tallinn residents claim that it is the oldest active pharmacy in Europe.
The gastronomical side of the Estonian capital is as good as its beautiful architecture. Estonian cuisine is influenced by several factors, namely the country’s distinct four seasons, the Baltic Sea, strong farming traditions and European culinary trends. All these factors will put a visitor in front of a difficult choice to make: dishes of lamb, veal, goose, pork, fish, and pheasant combined with quite a variety of salads and Vana Tallinn liquor or a local beer. In some places, like Olde Hansa restaurant, a tourist can order even a bear steak but only in winter time when the bear hunting season is opened.
Socially and politically, the Estonian people are no less free as the Brits or the Germans. In the ‘Freedom of the Press 2009 Survey’, Estonia was ranked the highest among the Eastern European countries taking overall 14th place in the world (in the lot with the Republic of Ireland and ahead of Germany, the USA, Canada and Australia).
Ethnically and linguistically, the population of Estonia shows a high degree of diversity, and Tallinn is the best example of the latter. At present, ethnic Estonians (a Finno-Ugric people closely related to the Finns) represent 68.6 per cent of the total population and 53.0 per cent of Tallinn’s national composition. Other sizable ethnic groups are Slavic: Russians (correspondingly 25.6% & 38.0%), Ukrainians (2.1% & 4.0%), and Belarusians (1.2% & 2.0%). By all means and regardless of some non-significant and history-driven tensions between the ethnic groups in Estonia, it feels like the majority of the population treat themselves as the people of Estonia, a part of the multi-cultural and somewhat surrealistic society of the EU.
In Tallinn, there will be plenty of chances to disapprove a commonly known perception of an Estonian being a reserved person. Certainly, the Estonians are not even similar to the Mediterranean nations in the way of expressing their feelings and thoughts. However, once an Estonian gets known you a bit better (just to make sure that your intentions are honest and descent), you will immediately see a smile and a barrier of the aforementioned perception will be melted forever.
After our planet undergone some dramatic political changes in the last 20 years, the European continent had gradually opened the doors to some of its best-kept secrets. Arguably, the City of Tallinn is one of such secrets. It is not only worth visiting, but definitely worth visiting again.
International tourist advisers suggest that the real Estonia is actually waiting for us outside of the medieval beauty of Tallinn’s cobblestone streets. Perhaps they are right. It could be a good reason to go
