---
title: "Getting Around"
type: section
---

Irbid is known by the locals as "The Yellow City". Known this way because of the numerous yellow taxis used to get around the city. The charge for a taxi as of 2005 was only 85 gerash. You will be able to travel from one side of the city to the other for this small amount. Taxi's run 24 hours a day and are a great way to get around. You can even travel to Amman from Irbid in a private taxi for about 10 JD. Taxi's are everywhere. You only have to wait between 2 minutes and 10 (the very longest) to catch a taxi. The drivers usually speak English and are very cordial. You will find that even if they don't speak English they will do their very best to help. Men and boys usually sit with the driver and the women sit in the back.

Waiting for a city bus at the station allows you to shop the many small shops inside the station. You can buy everything from jewelry, fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts magazines and Arabic and English newspapers to keep you occupied while travelling. You can even get hot shawarmah and falafel sandwiches there. There are sweet pastries and chocolate, my favorite, available as well. Fresh Arabic coffee and Nescafe along with juices and soda pops are easily purchased in the bus station also.

City busses are even less expensive. You can ride a city bus for about 15 gerash. Sometimes they are overcrowded though and on a hot day it is not pleasant at all. Loud music and the natural body essence were not worth saving the few gerash as opposed to getting a taxi. In the spring and winter though when people don't perspire it isn't as bad. Men usually never sit with the ladies unless they are married or family. The busses are set up so that there is a row of single seats on the right and seats for two on the left. The back seat is across the entire back of the bus. When the bus is crowded and a woman steps onto the bus if a single man is sitting in the right side row he normally stands for her to sit. You may see a husband and wife sitting together but the man will stand or go to a single seat so that the woman may sit down. Occasionally, if a bus is taking passengrs to a small town around Irbid the bus driver will stop so that the passengers can get bread or yogurt from a local shop before finishing the trek to the village.
