---
title: "Broadway"
type: poi
type: "Hotspots"
latitude: 40.874278
longitude: -73.910081
---

The Broadway [ˈb ɹɑː dwe ɪ] is a high street and shopping street in the New York part of town of Manhattan and at the same time the oldest and with more than 25-km length the longest north south crossing of the island. This street comes to parts still from an old Indian's path which the first Dutch colonists have taken over and have developed to a street. The southern end of the Broadways lies with the bowling Green near the south point Manhattans. He leads straight through the island to the most northern point where he crosses the Harlem River by means of the Broadway bridge, further goes by the Bronx and the circle of Westchester, along the Hudson River, until he becomes, finally, the New-York-Albany-Poststraße and leads to Albany, the capital of the state New York. When the first Dutch colonists settled on the island and founded Amsterdam Anew, they took over – in contrast to the Englishmen who fell back by the construction of her settlements rather on her present principle of English town planning manner – this already existing Indian's path to reach from Amsterdam Anew, in the south of the island, to other places in the north.

Long before the first Europeans the island Manhattan (urspr. Name from language of the Delaware Indians: Manados/Manahata/Manahtoes/Manhattos (versch. Recordings)) entered, living Indians had hit there already paths in the wilderness rich in wood. Most important from them Wickquasgeck path was called, after one of the trunks of the Delaware Indians which inhabited the southern Hudsongegend. He crossed the island of the north after the south around marshes and rocky elevations around. The Dutch discoverer David de Vries mentioned this path for the first time in writing when he wrote in 1642:„ […] the Wickquasgeck way which the Indians pass daily“. The Dutchmen widened the southern part of the way and developed him to a fastened street which they called "Heere Straat" or also „Breede away“ from which by the later influence of the English language the name Broadway became. The today's Broadway does not correspond in his course, however, any more exactly to the original path or that of the Dutch street. Up to the 23rd street has of the Broadway still his original course. But where today of the Broadway leads northward, at an angle by the rectangle grid of the remaining streets and then on the west side of the island in northeast direction, ran the path which the Indians and later the Dutchmen followed, on the eastern side of the island up, and only possibly at the height of the today's north-east corner of the Central park he smashed a north direction and followed the line which corresponds today the Saint Nicholas avenue. Then in the area around Washington Heights meet again original path and today's Broadway and lead on the mainland, in the today's Bronx.

Provided one looks at the bowling Green as a starting point of the Broadways, then the today's street begins at the southern end of the island Manhattan in the so-called Downtown, the "Old Town" of New York. The today's starting point was originally much closer on the coast, by several actions of the land reclamation (while, e.g., left-over excavation was poured by the house construction in the water), however, the coastal line of Lower Manhattan has moved steadily a little further in the sea, so that the Broadway begins a whole piece of the water remotely. Sound park leads of the Broadway in the Trinity Church and in the city a few blocks to north-east. This segment from the south end up to the city hall is traditionally the distance so-called„ ticker tape parades“ which are organised earlier much more often than today for special occasions and personalities (e.g., after the victory New York Yankees with the World Series in 2000). Between the office buildings of the finance quarter stands, in direct neighborhood to the World Trade at that time centre and today's Ground Zero, the oldest church still located in use of the USA, the Saint Paul' chapel which has got over surprisingly even several town fires and the collapse of the twin's storms. To the west of the Broadways, up to the Canal Street, the distinguished residential district of New York was till approx. 1825. Land reclamation measures have also substantially increased here the area and now the shore of the Hudson river far lies behind TriBeCa and Battery park city. Between Canal Street and Houston Street lies the quarter SoHo what is today the quarter of the designer boutiques and art galleries and still reminds very much of the former textile factories, department stores and business houses which were built in the late 19th century with glass-cast iron facades (Italianate style) (Cast-Iron Historic District). The Broadway is lined here also by many shops which serve especially the tourists as shopping possibilities which stay there numerously.

The Broadway marks the east border of Greenwich Village (or also west Village called) and at the same time the west border of East Village and runs not far from Washington Square parks between New York University in the west and Astor Place and Saint Mark Place (or 8th street) in the east through. The impact of the Broadways also begins six blocks further to the north, in the union Square, to the north where he, against the Commissioners' plan of 1811, as the only street at an angle by otherwise on completely Manhattan (to the north of the 14th street) applied rectangle grids of the streets and Avenues through runs. The 14th street is looked as "a border" between "Downtown" and "Midtown Manhattan". Madison Square with Flatiron Building & Madison Square park, look after the south crossroad Broadway and Fifth avenue at night where cross of the Broadway and an avenue there originated lively and busy places with small parks and architecturally interesting buildings, as for example the crossroad of the Broadways and the 5th avenue in the 23rd street (Madison Square) where Madison Square park and the famous iron building are. Typical street scene on the Broadway in the Herald Square before the department store Macy's: Taxi-yellow dominates. Today in the Herald Square, the crossroad of the 6th avenue and the Broadways in the 34th street, stands Macy's, the biggest department store of the world, a whole block of houses (from 6. up to the 7th avenue between the 34th and 35th street) takes. There was originally the theatrical quarter of Manhattan, until it was removed bit by bit from the place in the Longacre Square which enjoys worldwide fame today under the name Times Square. The Broadway crosses in the Times Square the middle of the theatrical quarter and theatrical quarter (theatre of District) which is with his 38 theatres between the 41st and 53rd street. After him the spectacular musical productions which are called today in general "Broadway plays" were also named. Smaller theatrical productions have sat down earlier mostly a little bit remotely from the expensive location in the Broadway and, hence, got – later for every smaller theatre commonly, whether in the Broadway or not – the name "Off-Broadway" (German: „from the Broadway remotely“).

The next crossroad of the Broadways with an avenue is in the 59th street with the 8th avenue. This place is called Columbus Circle, after the discoverer Christoph Kolumbus named. Columbus Circle, the quite only traffic of a circle Manhattans, forms the southwest corner of the Central park. The 8th avenue running in north south direction forms the west border of the park and gets there also the name „Central park west“, the 59th street, the south border of the park, is called there apt-wise „Central park South“. In Columbus Circle is the anew built „time alerter the centre“ which accommodates the company headquarters of the time alerter's society, several expensive luxury flats and shops and concert halls of „jazz at Lincoln centre“. On the north side of the place hotel and Tower“, one of the numerous skyscrapers stands of the „Trump Internationally in the possession of the tree agnate Donald Trump with one of the most luxurious hotels of the USA. From Columbus Circle in northern direction is practicable of the Broadway also in both directions what is possible to the south only in the direction of Downtown. Now he is lined by a green middle stripe covered with trees, similarly the park avenue. A little further in the north Columbus crosses of the Broadway avenue (Lincoln Square) and leads on height of the 64th/65th street also in Lincoln centre, to one quarter which is known above all by the Metropolitan opuses and in which beside other cultural facilities also the Juilliard School of Music lie. In the 71st street the crossroad of the Broadways with Amsterdam is an avenue (Sherman Square, südl. of the crossroad; Verdi Square, nördl. of the crossroad), again with splendid constructions from so-called "Gilded Age" (Ger.: „golden age“, cf.„ Bark Epoque“ in Europe) come, under it the former Ansonia hotel in the 73rd street. Up to the 107th street leads of the Broadway now relatively in parallel with the remaining Avenues by the more distinguished Upper west Side which is marked primarily by big dwelling houses and is on account of the comparably quiet situation today a popular residential area expensive thereby in which people of the upper middle class and the superclass have sat down. In the 107th street avenue unites of the Broadway with the west and follows their line dead-straight in the direction of north-east by Morningside Heights, in the campus of the Columbia university and Barnard college past.

There is beside the Broadway in Manhattan still a street with the name Broadway in four other parts of town of New York: in the Bronx (the continuation of the old path, or the Broadways of Manhattan), in queens, in Brooklyn and in Staten Iceland. Moreover, there are the short streets independent of the real Broadway on Manhattan which bear the name like East Broadway, west Broadway and Old Broadway.

type: Hotspots
