---
title: "Central Park"
type: poi
type: "Hotspots"
---

The Central park in New York city was furnished in 1859 as a scenery park and is used since then also as a national park. Today he applies on a length of 4.1 km of 59. up to the 110th street and 840-m width between the 5th and 8th avenue, and the green lung of New York is also called. With approx. 3.4 km ² he takes about 5% of the ground surface Manhattans.

The original idea came from the scenery creator most important at that time of the USA, Andrew Jackson Downing. He reacted with it to the wish of the population for a recreation area, because there were hardly leisure possibilities and entertainment possibilities in New York at that time. In an article of the magazine Horticulturist he brought in 1848 the impulse to considerations in the direction of a big public park in which one go for a walk, ride, row, baseball or Cricket can play, moreover, there should be playgrounds for the children.

Downing travelled around Europe to get in the parks there inspiration for his proposal. In 1851 the idea became for the first time, by a letter of the mayor's Ambrose C. Kingsland to the advice meeting discusses publicly. Finally, these were the rich businessman Robert B. Minturn and his Mrs. Anna M. Wendell which founded a committee of like-minded citizens to realise a park like of the European models. The major task of the committee was to find a suitable area. However, the authorities and the inhabitants of New York had to be also persuaded even of the use of a park. Hence, the conditions were: * it would let earn money * it new jobs would be created * the cultural position of the town would be lifted * the health of the citizens would be promoted * political use The decision fell on an area in the East River which was called Jones Wood. Jones Wood was a marshy, hilly forest piece which was settled by approx. 1600 people. Mostly poor immigrants and Afro-Americans lived there. On the 11th of July, 1851 the possession was remitted which allowed to the town to buy the area. The brine, Central park. In the background the flatlet building The Beresford before the starting signal for the construction work had to be fixed first of all how the arrangement should be formed and how high the issues might be. Hence, the town founded in 1857 a park commission, the Board of Commissioners. This brought to life a competition in the same year to collect proposals for the arrangement.

The first draught came from Egert many. In his plan there were the streets which led by the park a parade place, sports facilities and a botanical garden. The commission fixed a budget of 1.5 million dollars to realise the enterprise. According to many draughts directives were fixed for the creation. In them one intended that there had to be streets to connect the 5th and 8th avenue. Further one wanted playgrounds, a flower-garden, a lake and place for exhibition and concert halls. As a result 33 proposals were submitted, most by the inhabitants of New York themselves. Had won proposal No. 33 of Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux. This draught became known as a Greensward plan. This planned to copy the different areas of the USA in cuttings as a nature reserve, in it, however, also numerous places, playgrounds and places which serve the well-being and the dispersion (e.g. To integrate restaurants, observation tower). Since it should also become a park for all citizens, and an oasis of the rest. One planned to lower the connecting roads not to disturb the overall impression. Besides, one wanted to renounce to a great extent architectural structures. A promenade should drive down in a lake. The footpaths should lie off the seaways, so that one can go for a walk undisturbed. A place Cricket had to go be to be reached simply in the north recumbent. The park commission carried out only few changes.

The construction work began in 1858 and one can say that they were not concluded till this day, because in the course of his origin and use the park was adapted over and over again to new needs and was reshaped. Nevertheless, the landscape was always preserved. First trees and shrubs which should not be integrated into the park had to be removed. Watercourses were put on to drain the area and to lead the water in the included in the plan lakes. Besides, stones were held back by sieves to pave the numerous ways. 166 tonnes of explosive were necessary to sprinkle granite rock. 1.9 million cubic metres of earth were moved and a 1.20-m-thick topsoil layer was put on. The trees and shrubs which were planted are uncountable. Till 1866 20,000 workers on the building site were occupied. The enterprise gave employment to many unemployed people again. In spite of the low wages many were ready to work also at night and on Sundays. When in 1859 a part of the workers struck to demand higher wages, they were dismissed, because there were enough work searching who accepted the conditions.

After for Friedrich Schiller already a monument was furnished, one had put up on the 14th of September, 1869 now second-oldest to honour from Alexander von Humboldt in the 59th street and Fifth avenue. During the work on the arrangement changes in the original plan were carried out., On the one hand, it was fallen back for cost reasons on cheaper materials by the construction of the numerous bridges. On the other hand the idea of a private zoo which found his home in 1870 in the south of the arrangement was integrated. This zoo was presented with all kinds of animals, under it deer, geese, porcupines and prairie wolves. Moreover, a lighting of the ways was furnished to make the park at night surer. Bit by bit other entrances were created and ways were widened. Still during the works the park of the public was made accessible. Because the commission feared, the level of the arrangement can sink, directives of utilisation were compiled. In it it was fixed who may enter the park when. The well-to-do citizens (and financiers) felt bothered by the poorer. It was forbidden to damage trees and shrubs, or to do his cattle for grazing in the park. Further were allowed none of the usual mass picnics, or military parades take place not to disturb the attraction. In 1870 the management went over in the hands of the mayor who founded a new park commission. Olmsted and Vaux were dismissed as landscape architects, because they criticised the work of the town too much. Really, however, the new commission finished projects which could be done before only cursorily. Vaux was put later again than landscape architect, however, his sphere of activity was lower. Olmsted and Vaux passed away before the turn of the century.

While the structures of the park were preserved, his sphere changed at the beginning of the 20th century. Always new skyscrapers framed the arrangement and gave him another appearance. To the slowly heard cars to the townscape which became affordable now also for the middle class. So that the park was not loaded by the through traffic too much, traffic light devices were established and speed limits were remitted. Over and over again there were plans to use parts of the park as a construction site - the New York Times from the 31st of March, 1918 gives an illustrated overview about this (mostly as socially valuable declared) to plan: They reached from exhibition arrangements and sports facilities, an opera-house and a cathedral up to a Hippodrom - against it successful protests stirred. Only the Metropolitan Museum of Art was realised. Later were established in the park, however, nevertheless, a huge number of new playgrounds, her number rose on 424. Ways were renewed, trees and shrubs were cut and removed to present new views. An ordinal service looked after unlawful shop assistants, homeless and the garbage. Public voices said, the park already resembled almost more a leisure park than a close to nature scenery.

After the Second World War New York grew to the metropolis of international capitalism. In spite of the in parallel taken place economic growth the poverty increased. As a result from it one saw the rising number of the raids in the park. It was urgently advised against entering the park at night. More and more heard homelessness, drug consumption and prostitution in the everyday picture of the park. In the middle of the 1960s the Central park was liked as a place for concerts by New York Philharmonic Orchestra, Metropolitan opuses and big political meetings. Conservative circles feared around the picture of the park; however, restrictions of the meeting right could not be put through. With the economic recession of the 1970s the town lacked more and more financial means, so that the park was neglected and partially neglected.

Because the city administration of New York and her mayor Ed Koch planned to close the Central park for cost reasons, some artists appeared in this time there and gave charity concerts. On the 19th of September, 1981 Simon and Garfunkel gave her famous later than live album published concert before more than 500,000 spectators. Paul Simon thanked for the realisation of the concert, among the rest, in ironic tone Ed Koch what led to big applause.

In 1980 the private Central park Conservancy was founded, a sort of charity organisation which is promoted primarily by donations of the big, in New York to resident enterprises and banks. The engagement of this organisation is to keep in good condition the scenery of the park. Moreover, they offer guidances by the park, around the citizens spend the beauty closer the animal world and plant world and her preservation value to demonstrate. These offers as well as the park in general with numerous pieces of art from different times, among other things Strawberry Fields of Yoko Ono (→ Strawberry Fields Forever), are used with pleasure. On some days more than 500,000 people operate in the attractions of the arrangement. Since 13. April, 2005 receives the Central park Conservancy also support from even younger austrian cultural forum which contributes with the specially founded Ignaz Pilat Society to the renovation of "The Ramble" – to a 18-hectare-, formerly from Pilat formed primeval forest in the middle of the park. austrian cultural forum the Central park supports Conservancy with donation money and voluntary work which of (foreign countries) Austrians should carry out together with inhabitants of New York
and also act – completely for the purposes of the cultural exchange and the renovation of the park section, and not least also to the self-advertising or to the popularity increase of the „almost forgotten“ Pilat.

From the 12th to the 28th of February, 2005 the artist Christ after long discussions with the city administration in the Central park realised the art project The Gates („The gates“), an installation with 7 500 gates from saffron-yellow material roads.

Today here stand the five-star hotels The Pierre, The Sherry-Netherland hotel and the famous Plaza hotel. There come as a typical wedding cake of the 30s built 745 5th avenue (earlier the Squibb Building) and General Motors of Building built in the international style. Till the 60s this area of the Central park which is valid as the mostly taken a photo area still differently looked. Instead of General Motors of Building stood the remarkable Savoy-Plaza hotel, another five-star hotel. The demolition and the next construction, itself hardly in the row of the surrounding buildings inserting General Motors of Building is valid till this day as argumentative and is together with the demolition of the Singer Building one of the biggest mistakes of the town planners of New York. Still today one finds many postcards and posters on which the old skyline of this area is illustrated so with the Savoy-Plaza hotel.

To the west of the Plaza hotel fall anyway Hampshire House (with green copper roof) and Essex House (applies the stroke visible far away to Essex House on the roof). The skyline lying behind it is clearly higher from what particularly the black-and-white Solow Building strikes.

In the southwest the 229-m-high Twintowers of the time alerter centre stand since 2004. Along the west side (Central park west) line up themselves various flatlet buildings from which most are very luxurious and live in those many public figures. Conspicuously four in the 30s are built Twintowers The Century, The Majestic, The San Remo and The Eldorado. The San Remo is best known and also most remarkable this four. Between The Majestic and The San Remo stands though lower, however, best known and oldest of the flatlet buildings in the Central park: The Dakota. Here John Lennon lived among other things where he was also murdered directly before the front door. The The Beresford also established in the 30s has even 3 towers and looks like a castle. In the kind of Déco built 55 Central parks west has become known particularly by the film Ghostbusters and is known, hence, as the Ghostbusters Building.

After both hotel of The Pierre and The Sherry-Netherland follow a lot of flatlet buildings by which many were built directly after the time of the 2nd world war. Astonishingly is present that these were built furthermore in the Wedding cakes-shaped kind Déco design and join therefore perfectly on the remaining surroundings of the Central park. The highest and most remarkable building in the Upper East Side is The Carlyle (avenue does not stand directly in the Central park, but a block behind it in Madison). In the Art-Déco formed and with green roof provided buildings is visible far away. The Temple Emanu-El is the biggest synagogue of the world and stands possibly by height of the Central park zoos. On the other side of the street, so directly in the Central park, is the Metropolitan Museum of Art, one of the biggest and most-visited museums generally.

The US-American composer Charle Ives wrote in 1906 a tone poem under the title Central to park in the Dark. Moreover, the park finds mention in the piece of "New York" of the US-American singer kind of Garfunkel: New York, to that tall skyline I come, flying in from London to your door. New York, looking down on Central park where they say you should travelling after dark. As well as in "Bernadette" (1997) of Paul Simon: When the leaves are dark I've got a hiding place in Central park And the sky is a coat of diamonds in her world hit "Miss You" (1978) have proved the Rolling Stones to the Central park reverence: [2] I've been walking in Central park Singing after dark People think I'm crazy I've been stumbling on micron feet Shuffling through the street Asking people, what's the more weakly with you boy?

type: Hotspots





[back to Sights](..)
