---
title: "Empire State Building"
type: poi
address: "Chelsea and the Garment District 350 5th Avenue"
opening_hours: "Observatory open: daily 9:30am-12a.m.(last admission is 11:30pm);Dec 24th:9am-5pm; Dec 25th:11am-7pm; Jan 1st:11am-7pm;Admission charge $6.00 /adult"
phone: "(212) 736-3100"
type: "Hotspots"
---

The Empire State Building [ˈɛ mpa ɪɻ steɪt ˈbɪld ɪŋ] is a skyscraper in New York city. The building is on the Fifth avenue between the 33rd and 34th street in Manhattan; the address is 350 Fifth avenue, New York, NY 10118. The construction lasted from the 17th of March, 1930 to the 1st of May, 1931 (410 working days). These were up to the opening of the World Trade centres in 1972 the highest building of the town and the earth. On a clear day one can see about 130 km far back in five US federal states (New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Massachusetts). Up to now about 117 million people visited the building. In 1947 a 3-m-high fence was established around the view platform. Nevertheless, it comes there over and over again to suicides. The name is derived from the empire State, to a nickname of the US federal state New York.

When the empire State Building was planned in 1928, still the old whale village-Astoria hotel stood here. In October, 1929 it was torn off and one – and this evaluated one as a good omen – discovered an old wine cellar of the Astors, with whisky from the time of the turn of the century and 100 boxes of French wine. The empire State Building is narrow with the history of the stock market crash of 1929 (black Friday) linkedly. The stock exchange speculator and important financier of the General Motors John Jacob Raskob which allowed to sketch the building of the architecture company Shreve, Lamb and Harmon had pursued years before the immoderate Überhitzung of the New York stock exchange with, while he promised „wealth for everybody“, a „new form of the economy which enables to everybody to become rich“ – however, on the basis of more foreign-financed (on loan more bought) shares. When the stock exchange broke down in October, 1929, however, finally, the above all countless small investors who had partly her shares up to 90% foreign-financed lost her whole having. The construction activity in the New York City with which the construction volume had been established by more than 100 buildings with a floor number of more than twenty floors (hundred metres) came to the complete shutdown. The radical reorganisation of Manhattan was concluded. Races around the highest building of the town, how between Chrysler Building and the tower of the bank of Manhattan 40 Wall Streets which were decided only at the last minute belonged to the past. This duel was also a symbol for the competition between both centres of Midtown and Wall Street, however, Raskob decided on another construction site. View of the top of the rock of Rockefeller centre During in Wall Street the stock exchange broke down, became between 33. and the 34th street the old whale village-Astoria ragged. With the exception of a few assumed lift cores which rose on the construction site for a while in the still vacant emptiness the demolition leftovers of the legendary hotel were taken away and sunk with Sandy Hook in the sea. To the inhabitants of Manhattan was clear that there were only two options for the new project: Either it would become a huge disaster, or an immense triumph – however, only if one succeeded with the help of this building in shifting a centre to the 33rd street and the stock exchange would stabilise again. Start of construction work was in March, 1930 and the laying of the foundation stone in September, 1930 by the former governor of New York and presidents the empire State corporation Alfred E. Smith took place.

Remarkably in this building the logistics of his establishment has remained till this day. In Detroit Henry Ford had invented the production line, this so decisive invention for the 20th century was turned the 33rd street in the vertical. 50,000 steel bearers, with a tolerance of 3 mm in the steel town of Pittsburgh made, travelled by ship and road to the east coast, reached the construction site after only eight hours, were still warm partly if they became of one of the cranes emporgehievt. Inside of the building a complicated perpendicular railway system by good trucks, rails and points was used which allowed with an exact timetable that none of the incoming trucks had to wait and no worker remained unemployed. In only one year and 45 days the building was provided. In record times 14 floors were established in ten days, on average 4.5 floors in the week. More than 3400 workers slaved at times on the building site, exactly in 3439 in August, 1930 at the height of the construction activity – with a wage of 1.92$ the hour. Special achievements produced the Nieter. In well-functioning four teams, many of the trunk of the Mohawk Indians, they smashed 800 rivets on the day, threw glowing metal at 300-metre height more than 40 metres away to catch it with funnel-shaped gloves. The working day began at 03:30 o'clock and ended at 16:30 o'clock. 14 workers died at the construction work. The steel scaffolding for the construction was established in 23 weeks from 60,000 tonnes of steel. A total of 210 steel and concrete pillars carry the a total of 331,000 tonnes building. In the hollow cavities of the steel bearers there are the various wires systems, cable systems and tube systems. For the inside removal it was used among other things as an especially firm and waterproof valid Lahnmarmor from Villmar and brook Gaudern in Hessen. This 380 million year old limestone is especially colourful and rich in fossil. Today Lahnmarmor is not promoted any more. In Germany this stone was obstructed, for example, in the health resort house Wiesbaden or in the museum of Wiesbaden. The photos of workers on the steel scaffolding during the construction phase went around the whole world and are so popular even today that they are used in the advertisement. The important photographer Lewi Hine has been obliged then specially for this purpose by the developers and his book about the construction of the empire belongs to the history of the photograph.

The ceremonious opening took place on the 1st of May, 1931 by president Herbert Hoover, but many offices stood empty till the 1940s. The lower finished floors were already rented and covered, while the building was in higher parts still in the shell. The view platform with a yearly million visitors gained long time more than the whole rental incomes amounted. The inhabitants of New York spoke of the Empty State Building. Even if the empire State Building did not succeed in setting up a new centre between Midtown and Wall Street – till this day there has remained a lonesome solitaire, a disadvantage for his far-reaching optical effect – cannot necessarily be from a failure no speech: The inhabitants of New York fell in love right away with her new landmark, the great final point of the busy, overtaxed 1920s years and the courageous sign of the courage and the inflexibility in times of the depression. The view of the visitor's platform at night The form of the building was influenced by the New York construction specifications at that time (Zoning Law). The observation deck at 320-m height was planned originally for the dispatch by airship travellers, because the point of the tower should serve for the anchoring of airships. Really an airship tried to bring a pile of newspapers in a rope hanging on the building. At last underpinning succeeded, however, with so many difficulties that was not to be thought of docking; the upward winds were too strong. The plans for an airship harbour presumably were from the outset rather a sort of public relation gag which shows, nevertheless, the intention to think the unbelievable and to hold the impossible for possible. (Docking an airship was put in 2003 effectively in the beginning sequence of the film Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow in scene.) Today serves the point as a mast. The metal mast as well as both highest, inwards moved parts of the building of the empire State Buildings are lighted up at nightfall to midnight in different colours. If there is no special occasion, it is illuminated with white light. With a lot of occasions the point of the empire State Buildings shines in different colours (e.g., red-white-blue for the US holidays, red-and-green in the yule tide, orange in Halloween, red in the Valentinstag, green in the Saint Patrick's Day, blue-white for Yankee home matches in the World Series finals and pink in Christopher Street Day). The official website of the empire State Buildings offers an overview of the monthly lighting plan.

"Empire State" was in the years from 1931 to 1972 the highest building of the earth. It has a roof height of 381 m (in 1250 foot) and a whole height of 448.7 m (in 1472 foot). Nevertheless, the just 68 m long aerial on his roof was mounted only in 1951. It removed on the 1st of May, 1931 Chrysler Building as the highest building of the world. Up to 1954 it was also the highest built structure of the earth, until it was towered above by a mast. Until in 1967 the Moscow television tower was finished, it was still the highest not drawn building of the earth. Only in 1972 it became by the World Trade centre (417 m, including aerial 527 m) as the highest building of the world excelled. Since the terrorist attacks on the 11th of September, 2001 by which the World Trade centre was destroyed it is in New York a city again the highest building (to voraussichlich to 2011, in to that of the Freedom Tower with a height of 541 m should be finished).

On the 28th of July, 1945 at 15:34 o'clock a B-25 bomber rests because of a navigational error with bad view in the building. → main article: Now airplane collision with the empire State Building It was no more problem to build even higher, but it did not seem any more worthwhile. Moreover, the epoch of the general euphoria was over first. Only so is to be explained that during 41 years no more higher building (from masts seen) was tackled any more. There there came some difficulties which would have appeared – with the state at that time of the technology – with even higher buildings. For example, one would have had to insert so many lifts that in the lower floors about half of the surface would have had to be booked only for them. A study of the American institutes of Steel Construction said that the financial profit with such high rises has the uppermost border and this would lie with 63 floors. With rising height there would be – in comparison to the building cost – decreasing income and with 132 floors no more profit. Because such houses mostly from artistic ones do not separate above all for financial reasons were built, a sensible upper border was already crossed with the empire State Building from view at that time with his 102 floors. After within three weeks five people of the building jumped to commit suicide, a three-metre-high protective fence was established in 1947 around the view platform. On the 23rd of February, 1997 the Palestinian Ali Hassan Abu Kamal shot with an amok run with a semiautomatic gun at 7 tourists and the person running amok and an other person died. Apparently the motive was not political, but lay in the loss of the property of the culprit.

The empire State Building Run-Up is a stairway step race for runners and female runners of the foyer (ground floor) to the 86th floor on the view platform (observation cover) which takes place yearly since 1978. The participants are runners and climbers. The stairway step running overcomes a vertical distance of 320 m (1,050 feet) and encloses 1.576 stairway steps. The record was set in 2003 by the Australian professional racing cyclist Paul Crake with 9 minutes and 33 seconds. The Stuttgart stair runner Thomas Dold won for the fourth time in succession, last on the 4th of February, 2009 with a time of 10 minutes and 8 seconds.

The last native, Jack Brod who lived since May, 1931 in the empire State Building has died on the 13th of January, 2008, at the age of 98 years, in his flat on the 76th floor.

The empire State Building played in several known films an important role, under it King Kong and the white woman, James Bond, Independence Day, Sleepless in Seattle, The big love of my life, Perfect Love Affair, in the series SpongeBob fungous head, in the King Kong remake of 2005 and in the film damned of 2007.

The Torre Latinoamericana in Mexico town is strongly felt to the empire State Building. Also seven sisters in Moscow to whom the high rise of the Lomonossow university belongs, and the cultural palace in Warsaw strongly remind of the empire State Building.

type: Hotspots





address: Chelsea and the Garment District 350 5th Avenue

tel: (212) 736-3100

openings: Observatory open: daily 9:30am-12a.m.(last admission is 11:30pm);Dec 24th:9am-5pm; Dec 25th:11am-7pm; Jan 1st:11am-7pm;Admission charge $6.00 /adult

[back to Sights](..)
