---
title: "Rockefeller Center"
type: poi
type: "Hotspots"
---

Rockefeller centre is a complex of buildings in New York city. This applies more than three street blocks and exists of a total of 21 high rises. Part of the complex is the Building. With a height of 259 metres and a total of 70 floors it is the highest building of Rockefeller centres.

The ambitious project started to establish in 1926 with the wish, the urban opera, the Metropolitan opuses, a new house. The draught of a uniform cultivation with a place in the middle decreases to the draught of the architect of the opera, Benjamin Wistar Morris. John D. Rockefeller II was persuaded of this idea in such a way that he took over, finally, a leading role by the realisation of the project. Nevertheless, after the stock market collapse in 1929 the opera got out of the project. She established her new house 40 Years later to the west of the Central park in Lincoln centre. Now, however, Rockefeller felt confronted to several expensive single properties. Now the character of the project changed drastically and became strictly commercial – and it was also a success, completely in contrast to the empire State Building. In 1929 Rockefeller with the owner of the properties – Columbia signed University – a hire contract for 24 years.
The construction of the buildings in the Art Deco began in 1931. A unique ensemble originated more different, but stylistically of the uniform and buildings referring on each other which are immediately aimed everybody. These buildings were planned by an architect's group at whose point Raymond Hood stood., Among the rest, for the artistic creation of the buildings and arrangements were responsible the Mexican painter Diego Rivera and the American sculptors Lee Lawrie and Paul Manship. The general Electric Building was built in 1933 as Victor RCA Building and was renamed in 1988, two years after general Electric RCA took over. Later, in the 1960s and 1970s, four buildings were built in the international style in by older parts of the complex opposite side of the street in the avenue of the Americas. Today they also count to Rockefeller centre. In 1985 it was lent to the general Electric Building of the status as a National Historic land mark.
The whole Rockefeller's centre complex was bought in 1989 by Mitsubishi Estate. 10 years later Tishman Speyer bought the original kind Déco buildings from Mitsubishi. On the 1st of November, 2005 the view platform was reopened after nearly 20 years in the 70th floor of the general Electric Building under the name Top of the rock. It was opened originally in 1933, at that time as the deck of a luxury liner forms, and in 1986 again closed, after the Rainbow Room bar expanded on the 65th floor. Both pieces of art "Joie", a 10-metre-high Luster in the entrance hall, and "Radiance", a running around crystal wall with a total of 160 m ² surface on the 67th floor, come from the German artist and designer Michael Hammers. The Austrian crystal enterprise of Swarovski ordered this on the occasion of the re-opening in 2005.

Rockefeller centre was an absolutely new step in the history of modern architecture. Here a rich businessman had tried to lift an absolutely new town planning draught from the baptism to build not only a skyscraper because – this had reached other quite with flying colours – to put a building group as an architectural unity in the middle of a town, but. The high buildings of Rockefeller centre are not square, but rectangular like discs in the length pulled to use the sunlight at most and to grant very long solar irradiation possibly to many rooms. No point might be removed inside more than nine metres from a window. The disguising of whole Rockefeller centre exists of white limestone which comes from a stone quarry in Indiana. He contains numerous fossils of animals who populated the sea before 300 million years.

The general Electric Building (urspr. Victor RCA Building) is the highest one as well as the best known building of Rockefeller centres. With 259-metre height and 70 floors it is the seventh-highest skyscraper in New York city and 30. USA. Here are the headquarters of NBC and MSNBC. Here beside their offices studios of the television company are also where the news NBC Nightly with Brian Williams, Today, Late Night with Conan O'Brien, Saturday Night live and other productions is taped by NBC or is turned. After the address of the building the NBC sitcom 30 rocks is named. Beside NBC general Electric also maintains here offices. Also the general Electric Building is one of the most important tourist attractions in New York city.
Among the rest, is known the Prometheus-Statue in the foreground of the building. This stands in the Lower Plaza which originally the input passage should become the shops in the basement, but during the economic crisis the luxury boutiques had hard time. Hence, in 1936 one went to ruin on a new advertising strategy to convert because the Plaza according to season and she – and this was about the most daring idea – to transform in winter into a skating road. This measure became exceedingly successful and transformed this place in the middle of Rockefeller centre into a social meeting place between arm and empire. In summer the area is used as a concert place in the heart of New York. To the yule tide is known the Lower Plaza for the gigantic Christmas tree; it is the biggest one of the USA. The lights of the tree are lighted every year by the acting New York mayor (Tree Lighting Ceremony).
Besides, every nation own building should get on the area of Rockefeller centres. Thus there is a Maison franc As sharp, the British empire Building, a Palazzo d'Italia and the Internationally Building. All buildings of the complex are connected by subterranean shopping streets with each other in which except the most different shops also some cafés and restaurants are, furthermore shafts of the New York underground are there also. These facilities in the subsoil Manhattans are to be owed to the fact that the base of the buildings was done till 26-metre depth. To good one still the radio the city Music sound which is also on the area of Rockefeller centres is to be mentioned last. She became known in December, 1932 finished and at that time was as the biggest theatre of the world.

1 Rockefeller Plaza, Manhattan, NY 10020

The official address of the general Electric Building is 30 Rockefellers Plaza, New York, NY 10112. On the whole Rockefeller centre of 49th applies up to 51st Street and from the Fifth up to the Seventh avenue.

type: Hotspots





[back to Sights](..)
