---
title: "Klagenfurt"
type: location
---

Klagenfurt is the capital of the Austrian region of Carinthia (Kärnten). According to the legend the city was founded after brave men had killed the "Lindwurm", a dragon living in the moors around Klagenfurt. In fact the town was founded about 800 years ago by duke Hermann, a descendant of the Rhine-Franco family Spanheim. Today it is a lively and attractive city with 90.000 inhabitants. Thanks to the work of Italian architects throughout the 16th and 17th centuries the city centre has an almost southern atmosphere. Over 50 romantic courtyards were built and most of them have been renovated with great effort and are open to the public. Nevertheless the city is not a museum, but a living town. Courtyards and shopping arcades house cafes, shops and restaurants which make a stroll a pleasant way to pass your time. Klagenfurt is also well worth a visit because of its many parks and the lake "Wörthersee".

  Klagenfurt and Lake Wörthersee lie in the south of the Province of Carinthia, close to its borders with Slovenia and Italy. While high mountain ranges form the borders between the holiday paradise of Carinthia and its neighbouring countries, the countryside opens up to the north in a picturesque landscape of rolling hills in which numerous buildings of historical significance can be found. Only a few kilometers away from Klagenfurt, for example, there is Hochosterwitz Castle, which was first mentioned in a document dating back to 860. Magdalensberg is just a few minutes' drive from the folk museum. Here you will find Austria's most extensive archaeological excavations of a Celto-roman settlement.
