---
title: "Zimbabwe"
type: location
---

Zimbabwe could be a fantastic place for tourism. However, the present economical and political situation make it not a country you want to visit as a tourist. 

The most visited place are the spectacular Victoria Falls. They can be seen on a short trip from [Botswana](/africa/botswana) or [South Africa](/africa/southafrica) but in doing so they are missing some fascinating areas. Visitor to Zimbabwe can gaze upon hundreds of species of tropical wildlife, thrill to the experience of white water rafting, scale chilly mountain peaks and savour the history of a people that goes back tens of thousands of years? Yet these pleasures are but a few of those waiting to be discovered by the traveller who plans to visit this gem in the heart of Africa. More highlights are the ruins of Great Zimbabwe, the beautiful [Lake Kariba](/africa/zimbabwe/lakekariba) and also the two biggest cities of Zimbabwe are worth a visit: [Harare](/africa/zimbabwe/harare) and [Bulawayo](/africa/zimbabwe/bulawayo). Last but not least, to the east are the so-called [Eastern highlands](/africa/zimbabwe/easternhighlands), fine walking and fishing country, so cool that at certain times of the year, the grass in the morning can be trimmed with frost. In the west is the other-worldly jumble of granite rocks that make up the Matopos National Park. Zimbabwe's largest wildlife sanctuary is Hwange National Park, situated on the western border with [Botswana](/africa/botswana). Hwange is home to one of Africa's largest elephant populations and myriad other species. Other excellent game viewing areas are Matusadona, Mana Pools and Zambezi National Parks.
