---
title: "Top 5 Must Do's in Spain"
type: section
---

• Visit Barcelona. One of the world’s most vibrant cities, Barcelona, or Barca as it is often fondly known, is the cosmopolitan heart of Catalonia. From the legendary nightlife to the beach, the sophisticated dining scene to the stunning Gaudi architecture that dots the city, Barcelona has an ambience that is truly unique. On a visit here, don’t miss the chance to see the simply stunning Sagrada Familia cathedral and take a stroll up Las Ramblas – the long, wide street at the heart of the city, lined with shops, bars and street artists.
• Take a boat trip to Islas Medes. This pocket-sized archipelago, off the coast of the sun-drenched Costa Brava, is combines seven tiny islands and its clear waters are home to coral reefs – making it a great spot for scuba diving and snorkelling. The area is a nature reserve and teems with underwater life.
• Sample sangria and tapas. Picture the scene: Balmy evening, sunset, pavement café, little plates of tasty, nibbley food washed down with deceptively sweet sangria…what could be better? Sangria – the all-too-drinkable concoction made from mixing red wine with fruit juices and or lemonade, is a Spanish speciality, and tapas is a great way to sample several local dishes at once. It’s also a wonderfully sociable way to eat, but you might want to keep your Spanish dictionary on hand if you don’t fancy a plate of sheeps’ intestines!
• Take a balloon ride over Catalonia. Those with a head for heights can take in the stunning countryside of Catalonia from a birds’ eye view, with a hot air balloon ride. There are several Barcelona-based companies offering group and private balloon rides, taking in the dramatic cityscape as well as the beautful surrounding mountains, sea and countryside.
• Hit the beaches. Catalonia is blessed with many beautiful stretches of sand – from busy family-friendly beaches to tiny spits of sand accessible only on foot. Catalonia’s Costa Brava coastline is perfect for sunseekers, and those on a city break to Barcelona will even find a decent beach right at the heart of the city, with plenty of more scenic spots just a short train ride away.
