---
title: "Villas of Lucca Tour"
type: poi
type: "Villas"
---

**Tour suggestion:** (with special thanks to the City Network of Lucca

 Our starting point is a well-known spot in Lucca. Here the ring of walls built in the 1300s marked the eastern border of the medieval town. Once beyond the turreted vault of the gate of Saint Gervasio and Saint Protasio, we can see the enclosure walls of VILLA BUONVISI and catch a glimpse of the outstanding gardens of the villa, thanks to the so-called ‘finestre lucchesi’ which open onto them. (This method of setting openings as if they were real windows along the enclosure walls of gardens and town houses is typical of the architecture of Lucca.) If, on the other hand, you enter the town through Porta Elisa, the gate built for and named after Princess Elisa Baciocchi in the 1800s, walk along Via Elisa for about 300 metres until you come to the main entrance to the gardens of Villa Bottini on your right. Upon leaving the villa turn right and go down Via del Fosso until you come to a roundabout, 250m later, where six roads converge. Go into Piazza San Francesco on your immediate right and from there take Via della Quarquonia, where VILLA GUINIGI, the other villa within the town walls, is situated.

  Now that you have visited VILLA BOTTINI and VILLA GUINIGI, leave the town centre by proceeding through the town gate of Porta Elisa. Turn left on the main road and drive along for about 1 km, keeping the town walls on your left. At the main intersection, turn right and take the Statale 12, known as the Brennero, in the direction of Abetone. The bank of the River Serchio, formerly the Auser, is on your left, while ahead of you, among the rolling hills, lie many of the best-known Lucchese villas. On a clear day, you will be able to see the settlements and distinguish the demesnes ,and possibly obtain a perspective of the villas proper. Stay on the main road, leaving SAN PIETRO A VICO on your right. After 6 km(in all), turn right at the road to VILLA REALE of MARLIA. VILLA REALE di MARLIA signposted in brown. Continue for 1.5 km and bear left at the junction, thus keeping the enclosure walls of the villa on your right. Proceed along the tree-lined avenue for 300 m until you come to the Porter's Lodge. If you drive down the tree-lined avenue and beyond the Porter's Lodge you will come across some of the most beautiful early 16th-century Lucchese villas; however, they are private residences and thus not open to the public. They were built very close to each other and do indeed look quite remarkable in the middle of this stretch of countryside with their high enclosure walls and cypress tree-lined avenues. Now and again you can peep through the entrance gates and get a glimpse of the villas and their splendid parks. Villa Lucchesini (now Villa Petri), Villa Cittadella (now Villa Grabau), Villa Buonvisi (now Villa Oliva) and, a little further on towards Saltocchio, Villa Cenami (now Villa Querci) are all in the area.

  Bear left at Villa Reale and the splendid gates of VILLA GRABAU are 300m further on. If you continue left you will be able to get a glimpse of Villa Oliva, or Villa Buonvisi for the historians, which is beyond the trees after 500 m, while VILLA QUERCI is a km. further on. At this point, those who wish to continue the tour should proceed back in the direction of Matraia whereas those who wish to break for a meal should drive in the direction of Ponte a Moriano.  Turn left at the crossroads 500 m further on, go over the level crossing and into the main square after 300 m. Once at the bridge, you have two alternatives: the first is to continue for a further 800 m along Via del Brennero as far as RISTORANTE ERASMO (tel. 0583/406362), renowned for its welcoming atmosphere and local food (fried fish from the River Serchio for example); the second is to cross the bridge, turn right and drive for 2 km until you come to one of the most famous restaurants in the province, RISTORANTE LA MORA. Let's backtrack to Villa Oliva. The lane on the left, which skirts the back garden of VILLA GRABAU, leads to the parish church of SAN PANCRAZIO (11th-century) parish church of SAN PANCRAZIO (11th-century) from where marvellous views of the surrounding estates can be obtained.The road for MATRAIA, which winds uphill, is 200 m further on. The OSTERIA del VECCHIO PAZZO is signposted on the right after 600 m. A further 700 m along the road on the left in the direction of Matraia is ALDO'S--a good stop for a sandwich or a snack (the cooked meats are very good and hot meals are served in the evenings). Two bends further on, turn onto the unpaved road on your right, after 300 m turn left and VILLA ARNOLFINI which houses the AZIENDA AGRICOLA LA BADIOLA will come into view.

  Continue downhill along the bumpy dirt road for a further 2.5 km and you will be back at VILLA REALE . Originally, the Villa Reale estate was ten times more extensive than it is now and many other buildings, of which at least two others were 16th-century villas, were on the estate. Just think--- the bumpy dirt road once marked its boundary . We will go back to the main road, however, and take a right towards SPECOLA. There is a turn off to the right 200 m further up the road which will, within a kilometre, take you through olive groves and vineyards to the FATTORIA COLLEVERDE. The road continues uphill and the lay-bys along the way offer excellent shots for wide-angle lenses. Turn right after 1300 m towards VALGIANO and VILLA GUINIGI now PARDINI is 200 m further on. The small village of MATRAIA is a little further on. The small brick houses with their mullioned windows were used by those going hunting in the 1300s,and stand out here and there in the distance. If you stop in the lay-by you will enjoy panoramic views of the hills dotted with historic settlements, manor houses, English style parks and Italian gardens. Vineyards and olive groves are prominent: their colours changing according to the season, creating ever-changing landscapes. VAGLIANO is 2.5 km away. Beyond the village, the high road leads to CAMIGLIANO, where after 700 m you will see the tiny church of San Quirico in Petroio, a unique surprise on this villa itinerary. It is of great historical importance as it dates back to the 9th-entury, and its primitive architecture, which is still quite intact in the apse and façade, reflect the style of Lombardy and Ravenna. The visitor is always amazed by the simplicity and beauty of this small church,which was built, along with many others, within the jurisdiction of the Church in response to the faith and devotion of the local inhabitants; they are all to be found in the most unexpected places around the countryside of Lucca. VILLA VIDAU is 300m away.

  If, at this point, you continue downhill for 1.7 km towards SEGROMIGNO, you will link up with the ITINERARIO DEL NINFEO (n. 2). Your other alternative is to backtrack and drive towards SAN PIETRO a MARCIGLIANO, 1.5 km away, along this road that winds its way across the hill separating cultivated land from woodland. The higher you go, the wilder the landscape becomes until you reach the Pizzorne mountains, an ideal place for walking and hiking. The adventurous visitor is indeed rewarded with spectacular sweeping views over the valley below which embrace the Pisan mountains to the south, nearby Valdinievole to the east and the plains of Lucca below. These small hillside settlements either originated around the landlord's villa or,as in this instance, around the estates of the large landowning families. In the distance the elevation of Fattoria Mazzarosa appears powerful and stately on the hillside with its double loggia. There is a fountain on the left after the road sign announcing your entry to the village and a restaurant (da Batano) 1km further on which is only open at weekends. Turn left after 200 m and drive for 2 km to TOFORI, bypassing SANT'ANDREA in CAPRILE and its church, which dates back to the XIII century, the same period as the church in San Pietro a Marcigliano. Turn right at the junction signposted CHIESA di TOFORI. The churchyard offers a panoramic view of the surrounding land. Here, this 'orderly' countryside is where the landscape acquires its true character: olive groves and vineyards shape and mould the land, lines of cypress trees alternate with well-tended woodland, and roads disappear and reappear at intervals beyond enclosure walls. In the distance lies the majestic VILLA SANTINI di CAMIGLIANO with its superb parklands, whereas beneath the observer lies VILLA MAIONCHI, queen of the so-called villa farmhouses, with its terraced vineyards. To get to the villa, turn left after 900 m and right after a further 60 m. At this point you can either continue downhill and link up with the ITINERARIO DEL NINFEO (n. 2), or go back towards TOFORI. There is an unpaved road on the right after 300 m that will take you to FATTORIA di FUBBIANO.

  Turn left at the junction after 500 m and continue on this bumpy road for a further 500 m. The village of TOFORI is 600 m further up the main road. Drive beyond the village towards PETROGNANO--SAN GENNARO and at the junction VILLA FATTORIA GAMBARO is signposted 1500 m to the right.  The villa proper is on the right-hand side of the road whereas food, wine and other refreshments are served in the POSTO di RISTORO AGRITURISTICO on the left. The church of PETROGNANO is a 100 m further on. Take the road downhill and turn right amid olive groves to SAN GENNARO. This is a small medieval hamlet which grew around a castle - since destroyed - built originally in the strategic position on the crest of a hill. Hamlets of this nature would have been quite unusual in this part of Lucca but much more common in the Garfagnana area. There are quite a number of elegant homes and a cluster of villas in San Gennaro, but above all it is the flagstones and the very peaceful and reserved atmosphere which pervades the area that takes you back in time. The parish church is a superb example of medieval architecture (circa 11th-century) and much research has been carried out on its design and ornament. The engravings on the capitals in the north nave have been defined as mysterious because of their remarkably abstract nature and do not have any known references. Just over the hill from San Gennaro is Collodi, the small town where Carlo Lorenzini, creator of Pinocchio, the most famous puppet in the world, was born. Worth visiting are both the splendid VILLA GARZONI and the famous Giardino di Pinocchio.

type: Villas
