---
title: "Bavaria"
type: location
---

For most travellers this region of southern Germany bordering the Alps is the most quintessentially (and stereotypically) German. Bavaria is the land of **Lederhosen** and wood carvers, of giant stoneware mugs called **Maß** filled with **Starkbier** (dark bock beer) and houses painted with colorful frescoes. However, Bavaria is the most fancied state in Germany for purposes of vacationing and tourism. Its sceneries and cultural riches, the traditional Bavarian hospitality are the advantages are appreciated by the innumerable visitors from Germany and abroad.   One of the biggest attractions is [Munich](/europe/germany/bavaria/munich)’s yearly Oktoberfest but year round travellers can find festivals, great beer and lively music in the hundreds of villages scattered in the region. It is always interesting to spend some days in the surrounding of [Nuremberg](/europe/germany/bavaria/nuremberg), [Passau](/europe/germany/bavaria/passau), [Regensburg](/europe/germany/bavaria/regensburg), [Wurzburg](/europe/germany/bavaria/wurzburg), [Augsburg](/europe/germany/bavaria/augsburg) or [Bamberg](/europe/germany/bavaria/bamberg) - the cities offer cultural programs and nightlife, the countryside calm and relaxing atmosphere and beautiful landscapes. Several days could be spent just driving around stopping wherever you come across something interesting.

   The variety of health resorts and spas of world-wide renown stretching from the Rhön Mountains to the Alps offer holiday-makers every facility for health and fitness. No wonder, therefore, that Bavaria welcomes nearly 22 percent of all international tourist traffic in Germany. Discover for example [Berchtesgaden](/europe/germany/bavaria/berchtesgaden), [Coburg](/europe/germany/bavaria/coburg), [Fussen](/europe/germany/bavaria/fussen), [Garmisch-partenkirchen](/europe/germany/bavaria/garmischpartenkirchen) or [Oberammergau](/europe/germany/bavaria/oberammergau).

  Tourism in the Free State of Bavaria has become an increasingly important economic factor, especially in areas with less potent economic structure. The total number of overnight accommodations in all hotels and private lodgings, with a total capacity of about 715.000 beds, amounts to nearly 93 million, inclusive also of camping sites. As regards international tourism, the Free State has also notably improved its standing. One in nearly five visitors comes from abroad. Traditionally most foreign tourists come from the USA, followed by the Netherlands, Japan, Italy and Austria.

  If you haven't seen enough yet of this interesting region don't forget to pay a visit to [Altmuhl](/europe/germany/bavaria/altmuhl) - great wandering area, [Bayreuth](/europe/germany/bavaria/bayreuth) with its famous Wagner festivals or some world-known fairy-tale sites like [Neuschwanstein](/europe/germany/bavaria/neuschwanstein) or [Rothenburg](/europe/germany/bavaria/rothenburg) ob der Tauber along the Romantic Road.
