---
title: "Trekking"
type: poi
latitude: 30.174803
longitude: 97.305942
---

Himalayan treks can be taken throughout the mountainous areas of Nepal that are open to visitors (and these areas are slowly expanding). Trekking permits are needed obtained with a minimum of fuss in Kathmandu (for all of Nepal) and Pokhara (for Pokhara-based treks only). Treks can be taken with an escorted organized group or arranged independently though independent treks should be considered only by experienced adventurous travelers who have a few extra days to get things together. Most escorted treks employ Sherpa guides as well as porters to carry everyone’s belongings set up tents and cook meals. The best porters are usually employed by the tour companies but competent ones can usually be found by independents especially during the spring trekking season. Before hiring porters and guides get recommendations from other independent trekkers. Tents and other gear can be rented in Kathmandu and to a lesser extent Pokhara or you can stay in villagers’ homes along the more popular routes (this may not be very comfortable). Guest houses tea houses and lodges are also available on many routes (bedbugs included at no extra charge).

Treks are not the same as mountain climbing or wilderness hiking. Trekkers walk on paths fairly heavily traveled by Nepalese and other tourists (walking is the only way to go from one village to the next in the mountains). Only the foolish try to see how far they can get in one day—the whole idea is to stop and enjoy the spectacular views.

The treks vary in difficulty and length (from one to four weeks): Although you don’t have to be in superhuman shape the walking can be very demanding. You’ll be hiking about five hours (7-8 mi/10-12 km) a day on average with a lot of up-hill-and-down-dale at high altitude. Tour organizers usually rate the difficulty of various treks. We recommend treks to the Jomson area out of Pokhara for first-time trekkers. The Everest base-camp trek is more work for less reward—you’re just too close to the mountain to see much of anything. Those planning on taking the Everest trek however should allow at least two weeks to get up to base camp and to return (if you walk in and fly out). You’ll need the time to get used to the altitude and for possible delays especially if you’re taking a flight to or from Lukla. It’s not unheard of to be delayed a week getting to the mountains and then staying an extra three days at the end of a trek because of weather and flight cancellations.

The area around Mt. Manaslu (at 26 660 ft/8 125 m the eighth highest in the world) adjoining Tibet offers beautiful vistas and a mixture of Nepalese and Tibetan cultures in an uncrowded setting. Other areas that have opened to trekkers include Kanchenjunga Dolpo and Mustang. Some require steep permit fees; for example the Mustang permit costs US$500 a week (or portion thereof). In addition only organized trek groups are allowed into Dolpo.
