---
title: "Tours and Excursions"
type: section
---

HOW TO PLAN A TRIP TO BRANSON Choose the DATES you wish to visit BRANSON. Late December to Early March is OZARK MOUNTAIN CHRISTMAS (only limited shows) Late March to Early June is Springtime in Branson. (Season Begins) Late June to Early August is Sizzling Summer. Late August to Late October is Fall Festival time. November to middle of December is Christmas Specials Time. Go to
www.bransonchristiantours.com Choose the Shows & Attractions you wish to see. Here are some Examples of how many shows to choose: For a 2 night stay arrival at 2 PM you can see 4 shows or 2 shows & Silver Dollar City. 3 night stay arrival at 2 PM you can see 6 shows or 4 shows & SDC (all day attraction). 4 night stay arrival at 2 PM you can see 8 shows or 6 shows & Have a day at Table Rock Lake. 5 night stay arrival at 2 PM you can see 10 shows or 8 shows & The Great Passion Play. Tip: Always leave your last day with a free matinee & evening show slot so you can see a show you may have missed when choosing what to see. Get a FREE quote for a PACKAGE DEAL filling out Tour Request Form at
www.bransonchristiantours.com We will will call or Email you a quote within 48 hours with NO obligation. If you accept our quote Call or Email us with your acceptance and we will start booking your package. We require 1/2 down as a deposit and the Balance 15 days prior to arrival. We accept Personal, Business, & Cashiers Checks and Money Orders. Our refund policy: We try to refund ALL money paid if you have to cancel the trip 48 hours prior to arrival. We have NO service charges if something causes you to cancel. We must pre-purchase the tickets according to each Theater's policy and some theaters sell tickets under a NO refund policy, unless the show is cancelled by the theater. God Bless!
