---
title: "The islands"
type: location
---

**Gallinara **is a small island of quartzite, covering an area of eleven hectares or twenty-seven acres and located just under a kilometer and a half or a mile from the coast, near Albenga. The island reaches a maximum height of 90 meters or 295 feet above sea level. According to Cato and Varro, its name derives from the wild fowl (gallina in Latin) that used to live on the island in large numbers. It has been used as a hermitage since the late Roman era. Martin of Tours (c. 315- 97) lived there in a cave facing onto the sea. Later on (fourth-fifth century), the Benedictines built a monastery and a small cemetery on the island. The summit was fortified and a squat round tower built there in the fifteenth century, in a position where it can also be seen from the coast. The modest scale of these human interventions and its isolation have permitted the survival of a range of Mediterranean flora and fauna that is extremely rich for an island of such small size, with 270 different species, some of them of great importance. Outstanding among these are the Savona harebell (Campanula sabatia) with its characteristic papillae on the calyx, the Ligurian sea lavender (Liminium cordatum) and above all the Gallinaria knapweed (Centaurea aplomepa subspecies gallinariae), unique to the island. As for the fauna, the island hosts a large nesting colony of herring gulls (Larus argentatus) along with many black-headed gulls (Larus ridibundus), a number of cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) and, among the birds of prey, several kestrels (Falco tinnunculus).

 The tiny limestone **islet of Bergeggi **(barely three hectares or seven and a half acres in area) lies just under 200 meters or 220 yards from the mainland (Punta del Maiolo, Spotorno) and reaches a height of 53 meters or 174 feet above sea level. It used to be a promontory of the coast, linked to it by an isthmus that has now been destroyed by the action of the waves. Its tall and steep cliffs offer few perches for vegetation, but the plants that do grow there include the endemic Savona harebell. Signs of former habitation are provided by the ruins of a circular tower, thought to date from the late Roman era, incorporated in a medieval fortification. There are also the remains of an early Christian church from the fifth-sixth century.
