---
title: "The seabed"
type: location
---

The Mar Ligure is a deep sea. Its bottom has a fairly uneven topography and echoes that of the typical Ligurian terrain, with its wealth of valleys and mountain ranges. The rocky shore extends along much of the coast and continues underwater, often to a depth of over forty meters, with sheer cliffs dropping straight into the blue. These areas of rock are evenly distributed throughout the Riviera Ligure delle Palme. Indeed, it could be said that every headland, every promontory, has its own rocky bottom (Capo Mele, Isola Gallinara, Capo Noli, Capo Vado) offering environments of great interest, from the scientific viewpoint as well as that of underwater fishing, along with scenes of rare beauty. Sinking slowly beneath the surface into the brightly-lit world of the first few meters of water, you enter a domain where seaweed holds undisputed sway, forming a garden teeming with life: through the soft sea lettuces and the colonies of brown, green and red algae, accompanied by sponges, hydropolyps and acorn barnacles, moves a brightly-colored fauna, while sea fans wave in the currents, looking more like marine plants than animals. The rocks are almost always covered with sea urchins, red starfish and various species of brittle star. Naturally, there are also many types of fish living in the gaps between the rocks, from scorpion fish to the splendid rainbow wrasse known locally as ziguele, and from the bause or blennies to the numerous family of the sparids, with its white bream, dentex and salema, often in very large schools. Of course the king of the seabed is the grouper, now fairly rare precisely because it is so highly prized by underwater fishers. Nor are the submerged beaches, whether made of sand or pebbles, lacking in fascination (and prey). Interspersed with majestic meadows of sea grass where it is easy to find the noble gilthead, they are the realm of crabs and of omnipresent starfish and elegant conches. One of the most interesting areas for the naturalist is undoubtedly the artificial barrier of Loano, created in 1986 to promote the recovery of fish stocks. It consists of thirty pyramids of perforated concrete, placed on the sea bed. In their periodic surveys of the barrier, marine biologists have noticed the reappearance of a number of species that had almost vanished from the area, such as lobsters.
