# Budget Travel Ideas

*Asia > Middleeast > Unitedarabemirates > Dubai > Budget Travel Idea*

Dubai, though a modern utopian city replete with opulent seven start hotels, plush villa holiday homes and expensive shopping and dining destinations, still has several budget travel ideas for visitors looking for a comfortable experience minus the exaggerated frills. Here are some ideas to savor the glamour and snazzy appeal of Dubai on a budget.
Economy Flights and Hotels
One of the best resources to book cheap flights to Dubai is the internet. There are many sites that offer competitive deals and dirt cheap fare to the Middle East if booked well in advance. Travel agents and airline booking centers will charge you more than reputed travel websites that book in bulk to help you bag the discounts and cut costs.
There are also several economy hotels in the glitzy city that offer a personalized and comfortable stay at modest prices. Some of the most frequented budget accommodation options in Dubai are The Gulf Pearl Hotel, located a few kilometers from the airport and conveniently accessible to most shopping haunts, business centers and tourist attractions. The rooms are priced at approximately $80 per night. The New Peninsula Hotel costs about $110 a night and features neat rooms and easy access to the famous beaches of Dubai. The Pacific Hotel is nestled in the backdrop of the imposing landscape of the city is within walk able distance to the museum, malls and the celebrated Dubai Creek. The rooms here are tastefully done-up and are priced at approximately $95 per night.
Eating Out on a Budget
Dubai is a paradise for budget eaters and visitors can feast on a hearty meal for almost nothing. The favorite economy comfort food here is Shwarma- a delicious and generous meat and vegetable filling rolled in pita bread with huge salad dressings. You can eat this regional delicacy for only $1 and for little more visitors can have an entire meal. Apart from the fast food chains that serve reasonably priced fare, some local restaurants that offer large portions at rock bottom prices are Karachi Darbar-a humble, no-fuss eatery serving delectable meat kababs, robustly spiced gravies, traditional bread and yummy flavored rice with meat. Wafi Gourmet is a nice Lebanese joint whipping up lip-smacking shwarmas. Toscana is a great economy Italian dining option that serves sinful Italian preparations as an alternative to the heavily spiced eastern fare.
Sightseeing and Shopping on a Budget
The best places to hang out in Dubai are the beautiful beaches, you can have a nice, relaxing holiday and it doesn’t cost anything. For shopping, head straight to the Souk area for dirt cheap bargains. To save costs shop at the duty free shops and try organizing your trip around the Dubai Shopping Festivals when you can bag some super deals and discounts on shopping.
Dubai’s expensive look can be seriously deceptive as the city has a range of fantastic budget travel ideas and plays a good host to entertain its visitors irrespective of their budget.
