---
title: "Enjoy incredible Kashmir Tourism"
type: location
---

Travel Guide

If you have never visited Kashmir Valley yet, pack your bag and move. Kashmir is the place that no one should miss to explore. Whole one month would not be enough to explore the mind blowing beauty of the valley. Kashmir is also called mini Switzerland and got the name form poets called ‘Paradise on Earth.’
Kashmir Tour Packages comes with amazing offers. A one can choose their tour package according to their needs. Kashmir honeymoon packages are very much popular. Kashmir valley is the ideal destination for honeymoon couples. The incredible beauty of the valley brings charisma to couples voyage and hence makes their honeymoon most remarkable. Kashmir is all blessed with beautiful lakes, valleys, snow clad mountains, hill stations and so on.
Srinagar is the best city to visit in the valley. It is the summer capital of Jammu & Kashmir state. In Srinagar, one can explore famous Mughal gardens including Nishat Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, Nehru Park and many more. All these mughla gradens are located on the banks of Dal Lake on Boulvard road. Mughal Gardens also have a beautiful view of Zabarwan hills. These gardens are famous hangout for local Kashmiris in the city. Another famous attraction of Srinagar city is Dal Lake which is situated at the heart of the city. In Dal Lake you can enjoy your stay in the houseboat and also enjoy the Shikara ride. Shikara is the lake ride where travelers get to explore floating markets and other beautiful things. Floating gardens can be experienced only in two places in the world one is in Thailand and another is here in Kashmir.
People who visit Valley should not miss to visit Pahalgam. Pahalgam valley is near about 85 kilometers from Sringar city. It is a most famous tourist spot in the valley. Pahalgam is also known as ‘Valley of Shepherds’ and located on the banks of river Lidar that comes straight from the glacier. Here at Pahalgam one gets to enjoy the greenery all around and the beauty of snow clad mountains. No Kashmir Tours will be complete without visiting Valley of Shepherds.
Another famous tourist destination to visit in Kashmir is Gulmarg. It is one of the famous hill stations in the valley. Gulmarg comes in upper most priority in Kashmir Tourism. Gulmarg is known for winter sports and people around the world participate in winter sports activities. Gulmarg is all cover with snow in the winters and in summers one can find greenery all around. In Gulmarg, one should not forget to enjoy the Gondola ride which is car cable ride that connects Gulmarg to Khilanmarg and then
