---
title: "Nightlife and Entertainment in Lago Maggiore"
type: section
---

While you have some elenxlect points, I disagree with the idea that an application’s private message service should be an e-mail gateway. If the concept of “destination” is an old idea, the concept of communicating via e-mail is an even older idea. If I want to make sure that my teenage daughter DOESN’T read something, I send it to her in an e-mail. Even at my advanced age, there are times when I prefer to communicate within the application, rather than having to make the old-fashioned GMail or Hotmail my…um…destination. I can provide an example. One of my FriendFeed friends is arranging a gathering this weekend, and is using FriendFeed’s direct messaging feature to ensure that each of the invitees sees it. Several of us are commenting on the original invitation, which in the FriendFeed UI appears as comments below the original item. As these comments are added, each of our direct message boxes is highlighted.Now imagine if this were being conducted in our e-mail applications instead. This would be a long e-mail thread, possibly bifurcating into umpteen million sub-e-mails of limited groups, extra groups, and the like. While there are situations in which e-mail would be preferable, this is not one of them.I know I’m focusing on a very minor point in your post, but perhaps there is some rationale for keeping messaging facilities within the application. Now perhaps it would be good if the different messaging facilities could talk to each other – since the application vendors have established inter-application links between other features, why not messaging? – but please don’t force me to go
