---
title: "Chinatown/North Beach"
type: poi
---

Here, two ethnic enclaves exist side by side. Stroll Grant Avenue amid Chinese-style buildings housing restaurants and shops. North of Broadway is North Beach, known as Little Italy. Explore the cafés and bookstores popularised in the '50s by the Beat Generation. It should be noted that the few few blocks of Grant Avenue (under the famous arch) are the "tourist" streets - mostly kitschy shops selling gegaws though there are now more chic stores arriving. One block west is Stockton where the real citizens of Chinatown are - replicating a little bit of Hong Kong in its sounds, crowds and street stall-like markets. The shopping there is more of the everyday variety in food, household goods, et al. While there are dozens of restaurants in the Chinatown area, overall, the quality is not up to the standards of the rest of SF. if your Chinese food taste buds are strictly Americanized - your taste buds will be satisfied adequately with any choice. If your Chinese food needs are more authentic, there are several delicious 'dives' scattered throughout but they might look a bit iffy for the casual tourist. For more consistent quality, you have to go to new Chinatown on Clement Street (half a city away in the Richmond District) where there are no bad choices. The only (old town) Chinatown restaurant that both serves the palate and your visual sense is CITY VIEW - best for its DIM SUM. It's slightly off the beaten path on Commercial Street but it's clean with excellent dim sum (served only until the early afternoon).
