---
title: "Shopping"
type: section
---

The St. Enoch Centre, is the largest all-glass building in Europe, and has become somewhat of a landmark in the city. Undergoing a major refurbishment, the centre contains over 80 stores and Scotland's biggest food court. The centre contains many high street names typical of most UK cities including Boots the Chemist and BHS. The Sauchiehall Centre, although much smaller, contains a number of well-known chains including HMV and John Menzies. The Italian Centre is just five minutes walk from Argyle Street and caters for the exclusive and designer label shoppers. All the famous names are here as well as a number of European style pavement cafes. Princes Square is located off Buchanan Street and is possible Glasgow's most famous and loved shopping centre. Highlights include a good quality food court and a number of unique and high-quality shops. Princes square is a popular meeting place both for business lunches and for couples. Argyle Arcade is located on Buchanan Street also, and mainly contains jewellers shops. The Barras Market comes to life every Saturday and Sunday between around 9am and 4pm. This is Glasgow's very own 'flea market' and is a unique experience not to be missed :) Located towards the East end of the city at the far end of Argyle Street past the Tron clock. Department Stores: There are a number of large department stores in Glasgow. All are part of large UK-wide chains and can be found on most high streets in the UK. The difference is that the biggest stores are found here in Glasgow (or London). On Argyle Street there is House of Fraser, Marks and Spencer and Debenhams. Argyle Street's M&S is undergoing a £27million refit and will upgrade the store to be the biggest M&S outlet in the world. Nearby on Sauchiehall Street there is BHS and a smaller M&S. 

The Braehead Shopping Centre opened in 1997 and is situated in the outskirts of Glasgow (towards the airport). It's a large indoors shopping centre hosting most popular shops and provides free parking. Many people visit Braehead from all over Scotland and Ireland. 

Glasgow shopping has been transformed in the last 10 years. Many native Scots consider it the best shopping centre in the UK outside of London (and certainly the best in Scotland).
