# Beaches in Moorea

*Australiaandpacific > Frenchpolynesia > Moorea > Beaches*

The 51-square-mile island provides every visitor with great opportunities to enjoy the beaches and also participate in numerous water activities including diving and snorkeling. There are sunset cruises for groups, and if you want more privacy you can hire yachts. A magnificent natural occurrence on Moorea is the black sand beaches. One of the top beaches to visit is Haapiti Beach situated on southwestern part of Moorea. The long stretch of shallow water before the drop off makes for beautiful calm waters, and amazing sunsets can be enjoyed from this beach.

The northern parts of the island include plenty of water activities including Cook’s Bay which harbors most of the yachts and cruise ships that visit Moorea. There are pockets of sandy beaches in and around the bay to relax at and the island is a great launch point for diving and snorkeling. Harau Point is another popular part of coast line on Moorea and is found to the Western skirts of the island when travelling from the Airport. This large shallow lagoon is a great place for snorkeling and kite surfing is safe for all ages. There are also day trips that go to the nearby offshore island of Motu Fareone. An exciting experience for visitors to take part in is the Dolphin Quest. This is a managed program that teaches dolphin awareness and where you get to swim with them. Another popular beach to visit is the white sands of Pearl Beach where you can stay at the Pearl Resort right on the beachfront.

If you find yourself on the East Coast of the island, you can head to Teavaro Beach. This long stretch of public beach is not overly crowded because of its size and so you can enjoy snorkeling, water sports or even just to catch a tan. It is close to the airport and a short way down the strip of beach you will find great accommodation at the Sofitel Hotel. If you are after a real island experience and want to head as far away from anything urban as you can, look to the South of the island where the beaches at Maatea Point are quiet, tranquil and ideal to lose touch with society.
