---
title: "St. Albert ."
type: location
---

(Follow St. Albert Trail north) St. Albert is Alberta's oldest non-fortified community. Established in 1861, it was named after the patron saint of Father Albert Lacombe, one of the earliest and most influential missionaries in the West. St. Albert Place, on the banks of the Sturgeon River, encompasses the Arden Theatre; a library, arts and crafts facility, City Hall; and the Musee Heritage Museum, highly regarded for its exhibits coverting the city's rich history, from the Metis to the missionaries and pioneers. Exhibits change every two months. French and English tours. Free admission. Located west of St. Albert Trail on St. Anne St, 459-1528. Father Lacombe Chapel, a Provincial Historic Site, dates back to 1861, making it the oldest building in Alberta. Built by Father Albert Lacombe, the chapel was established for ministering to the Cree and Metis. It has been restored to its original appearance and can be viewed May 15 to Sept 2, daily 10 am - 6 pm. $2 adult, $1.50 youth/senior, free for children. Next door is the Vital Grandin Centre, built in 1887, includes a museum portraying the life of the early missionaries. On Mission Hill, west of St. Albert Tr on St. Vital Ave., 459-7663. Other sites to enjoy: Woodlands Water Play Park, Red Willow walking/biking trails, Western Canada’s largest outdoor Farmer’s Market every Saturday July through September, fishing for kids at Lacombe Lake Park,. For information on St. Albert.  Tel: 1 780 459-1724
