---
title: "A perfect day"
type: location
---

**A perfect day in Bangkok**

  Welcome to one of the most interesting cities in the world. Most people either  like Bangkok or hate it. I rate Bangkok as the most interesting Southeast Asian  mega city due to its cultural diversity, variety of international cuisines and,  last but not least, its people - Thais and foreigners alike. To experience Bangkok in a day is hardly possible, so if you have the time to stay a few days  more you should do it. Most international airlines allow a stopover if you come  from East Asia and Australia or Europe respectively. But nevertheless, if you  have only one day, then skip most of your sleeping time - it is well worth it.

  Make sure you get up early if you want to see and experience most of Bangkok in one day. You should stroll around in the streets and stop by at one of the thousands of food stalls you can find at every corner. Most Thais start the day with a simple rice soup called khauw tom (but you can also have European  breakfast in every hotel or tourist area of Bangkok). Do not forget to buy one  of the colorful tourist maps you can get at every shop that sells items for  Tourists. They are cheap and very helpful.

  A perfect day could start at Sanam Luang (Royal Garden or Field), which is the traditional site for Royal cremations. From there you can go to the National  Museum (closed on Mondays and Tuesdays). It is one of the largest museums in  Asia and probably the best place to learn something about Thai culture.

  Another short excursion would be to the world famous Khao San Road, which has just recently gotten even more attention due to the movie "The Beach" with  Leonardo DiCaprio. You find Khao San Road about five minutes walk from Sanam  Luang. Here you can find everything that an independent traveler might need. The  place is also a good shopping area and if you want to pretend that you have been  to India, Nepal, Indonesia or even Ecuador you can find all sort of clothes and  jewellery. There you can also buy tickets for traditional Thai boxing events or  book a canal tour if you have another day to spend.

  Having checked out the National Museum and/or Khao San Road, it is now time to go to one of the most beautiful Asian temples in the world: Wat Phra Kaew. It is  the home of the Emerald Buddha and the Royal Palace, another touristic highlight  located on the same compound. You can either hire a guide or stroll around  yourself on the 940.000 m2 big compound. Do keep in mind that visitors should  dress in a respectful manner. Many people had to miss out an outstanding site  because they were wearing short trousers, sleeveless shirts and slippers. The  palace guards are very strict when it comes down to dress codes (the same  applies actually for the expensive hotels in the evening). Do not forget to  remove your shoes before entering the inner temple halls.

  Are you already a little bit tired? No problem. What you should have then is a traditional Thai massage. Behind the Royal Palace you will find the oldest and largest temple - Wat Pho. Wat Pho does not only host the largest reclining  Buddha statue, but it also the most famous center for traditional Thai Medicine. On the eastern part of the compound you will find the Traditional Thai Massage  school where you can get a massage for 30 minutes up to 2 hours. You should have  an hour at least. By the way, if you want to learn Thai massage, that is easily  possible, doesn't' cost much for a 10 day course and you will see quite a  large number of foreigners doing it also. Your loved ones will be grateful for the rest of your life!

  Now head for the nearest pier at the Chao Phraya river. The pier is a little bit hidden at the eastern side of Wat Pho. From there, you can get to another  beautiful temple. Ask for the boat to Wat Arun (Temple of Dawn). The Khmer style  temple is actually located on the other side of the river, but small ferries  cross the river every few minutes. Probably you have seen this temple  on brochures of Thailand.

  If you are already too tired you can immediately take an express ferry down the  river and jump off at the best town hotel in the world, the Oriental. The  express stop has the same name. Go through the main entrance to the garden  terrace. Sitting next to the river and enjoying the probably best milk-shakes of  Bangkok or, for example, sipping a real Italian cappuccino while watching the  river is really great and relaxing. If you come back in the evening it is even  nicer and you can pretend to belong to the rich and famous of the world - if you  are not part of them already.

  If you want to move on it is only a short walk to the beginning of Silom Rd. You can walk slowly up the street and check out the shops and stalls, but I  suggest it is now time to try out a Tuk Tuk, one of the three-wheeled vehicles.  Do not forget to negotiate a price. It should not cost more than 80 Baht to go  to Patpong, the old Red Light District of Bangkok at the other end of Silom Road. The famous street (actually there are two and the neighboring Thanon  Taniya, which caters for Japanese tourists) is actually located in the middle of  restaurants, business offices and department stores. Despite its doubtful  reputation it is an area stuffed with good restaurants. At seven o'clock, the  night market will be built up and you can buy imitations of designer clothes or  watches and many more things. Hordes of foreign tourists are passing by every  night. I would rather recommend to come back around 10 o'clock and jump on the  newly built Sky train, which has a stop on Silom Road. In a few minutes, you  will be at Siam Square and Maa Buu Krong Shopping Centre. This is probably the  best place for shopping in Thailand, but if you are more into international  expensive brands like Gucci, Boss & Co., you can find these on the other side of  the Square in one of the department stores there.

  If you have not eaten yet and you want to try one of the food stalls my recommendation is always: Do it as the Thais do it. If you see a lot of Thais  having lunch or dinner in one place, then this is most likely a good sign for  good food. By the way, there is a saying about Thais, that if they are not  actually eating, there are thinking about what they are going to eat next. If you have never  eaten Thai food before you should definitely try the famous Tom Yam Kung soup  (prawn & lemon grass soup with mushrooms) and Phat Thai (Thin rice noodles fried  with Tofu, vegetables, egg, peanuts and very often with shrimps or chicken), but  the Thai cuisine has much more to offer. It really deserves to be rated as one  of the best in the world.

  For Nightlife the possibilities are unlimited. Before you go to one of the  numerous discos, pubs or night-clubs, go to Spassos. A very popular hangout  place for both Bangkokians and foreign expatriates. The Spassos is an Italian  Bar and Restaurant at the ground floor of the Hyatt Erewan close to the World  Trade Centre. Do not forget to check out the Erawan shrine next to the hotel. There you can find all different kind of cultures and religions integrated in single place. The hotel is only one Skytrain stop located from Silom Road On  Fridays or Saturdays Spassos is packed with people dancing to the disco beats of  highly professional bands from the US or Canada. You can also check out the  night bar of the disco located in the basement of the Novotel, which is less  than a five minutes' taxi drive away from the Hyatt Erawan or go to Siam Square by  Skytrain and walk back 250m. The alternative is to find a classical Thai dance and music place. Many restaurants offer them. Check out the Bangkok Post  newspaper for more information.

  Last but not least, if you are on a weekend in Bangkok do not forget to visit the giant Chatuchak weekend market located in the north of Bangkok. Because it  is the final stop of one of the Bangkok Skytrains you can go there without any  stress. It is the best market in Thailand.

  Dear traveler, I hope you enjoyed your stay in Bangkok. There are so many things to see and do, so do not forget to come back.
