---
title: "Climate"
type: location
---

The Philippines has two very different climate zones. In the coastal and lowland areas there's a typically tropical marine climate: hot and humid throughout most of the year. However, most of the year constant sea breezes temper the climate somewhat except during the dry summer months from March to the end of May. The two main seasons are wet and dry; the dry season from mid-November to mid-May from November to the end of February enjoying cool, ocean breezes with March to May with being the hottest,up to 38C and the wet season from June to October being hot and humid. Every year during the rainy season nearly 20 typhoons, known as "bagyos" blow across the islands usually lasting 3 or 4 days. Steamy, sunny days during the wet season are common after the tropical downpours of heavy rain during the nights and early mornings. 

In the highest elevations of 1200 meters and above in the Mountain and Ifugao provinces of Luzon and in several areas of Mindanao the climate can be very cold often under 10c especially at night until mid-morning. Although there is a dry season in the the higher elevations of Luzon it is much shorter and not nearly as hot. In most of Mindanao there isn't any clearly defined dry season with a wet and wetter climate making it hot and humid weather all year round. 

 January is usually the coldest month with an average temperature of 25.5°C (78°F), while April and May are the hottest from 28°C (83°F) up to 38C (100 F). April and May though very hot, are the best times of year for scuba diving with the greatest visibility, mountain trekking and festivals. Rainfall varies, but most places south of Luzon get rain year-round. Beware of typhoons between May and November but although these can cause great damage in the "eye of the storm" usually it just means some strong winds for one day and extra heavy rain for 3 days. In 20 years, I haven't experienced any life threatening Typhoons. ** I always share what the Filipinos' attitudes are with travelers in the Philippines. The easy going Filipinos refer to "bagyos" not as bad weather but as "bed weather" so find a companion to share the rainy days inside together.**
