---
title: "City Tours"
type: location
---

**TOUR 1: Museum Mile: The Guggenheim to the Frick Collection

** This tour covers many of the famous museums on the city's Upper East Side, near Central Park. Each museum could easily become an all-day outing, so individuals should decide, based on taste and interest, where to focus their time. Additionally, many other museums both on and off Museum Mile are worth a visit. 



**Guggenheim Museum:**The Guggenheim is located at Fifth Avenue and 88th Street. Take the Number 4, 5 or 6 Train to 86th Street. Upon exiting the train, walk west on 86th Street to Central Park. Turn right, walking north, parallel to the park. The Museum will be on the right.Certainly the most recognizable non-skyscraper building in New York, the Guggenheim inspires as much debate as the art it houses. The mammoth spiral structure, designed by genius architect Frank Lloyd Wright, at first jars onlookers as it dominates all other nearby buildings. Gradually, its beauty becomes comprehensible. At least, to most people. Some still decry its ugliness, but those people exist to be taunted for their small mindedness, as Wright would have wanted.Those who criticize the Guggenheim for its impracticality as an art venue have a stronger case. Built to contain the collection of copper and silver magnate Solomon R. Guggenheim, the museum permanently displays works by Chagall, Picasso, Kandinsky, Klee, Van Gough and many others. The Guggenheim also mounts temporary shows, often displayed in the distinctive spiraling space. Guggenheim visitors begin their journey at the top, taking an elevator to the beginning of the spiral. As visitors progress downwards, they take in the various galleries, each highlighting different aspects of the collection.

 

**The Metropolitan Museum of Art: ** Upon leaving the Guggenheim, cross Fifth Avenue and turn left. Walk south, parallel to Central Park for several blocks. As you walk, you will see some of New York's poshest apartment buildings, along Fifth Avenue, facing the park. Built in 1870, the vast Metropolitan Museum of Art houses numerous collections that rank among the finest in the world. Popular exhibits include the Egyptian Collection and the Temple of Dendur, European Paintings, and the Medieval Art Room among many others. Foreign visitors should consider visiting The American Wing, which contains some of the best examples of this country's fine and decorative arts.

 

**The Whitney Museum:**Exit the Museum and cross Fifth Avenue. Turn left on 82nd Street and walk to Madison Avenue. Cross Madison Avenue and turn right. Walk south on Madison until you reach 75th St. The Whitney Museum of American Art is located at 75th and Madison.Incensed by what she perceived as neglect of emerging artists by more conservative institutions, artist and patron of the arts Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney founded her own museum. For many years, The Whitney displayed no permanent exhibits. The museum presents its most famous show, the biennial, every two years. New Yorkers consider debating, debasing, adoring and despising the always-controversial Biennial a sport.

 

**The Frick Collection:**Exit the Whitney and cross Madison Avenue. Turn right on 74th Street and walk west towards Fifth Avenue. Turn left on Fifth Avenue. The Frick Collection is located on Fifth Avenue at 70th Street.The Frick Collection's building impresses as much as its art collection. Once the private mansion of steel and coke magnate Henry Clay Frick, he left the building as a monument to his fortune and spectacular European art collection. While many of the gilded age's mansions have been torn down and replaced with apartment buildings, The Frick reminds New Yorker's of the city's opulent past and more opulent than anything that exists today.Affecting the illusion that the mansion remains a private home, the Frick displays its works without accompanying text or rope. Not nearly as overwhelming as the Met, visitors truly appreciate each work of art here ñ including masterworks by Titian and El Greco. For those who have completed this tour, the Frick's lovely garden and cafÈ should provide a welcome sanctuary.

 

**TOUR 2: The Downtown Park to Park to Park Tour: Tompkins Square to Washington Square**

  **Tompkins Square Park:** Accessible by the L Train at 14th Street and 1st Ave, Tompkins Square Park begins where St. Marks Place ends. Here is a vital place bound by 10th St.This urbane park takes its name from Governor Daniel D. Tompkins and was inspired by Bloomsbury Park in London, which influenced many landscapes in its time. Its 16 acres served as a parade ground at the beginning of the 19th century. Today, it is a vigorous melting pot within the bigger melting pot of New York City.

 In August 1988, the Tompkins Square Riot happened as a result of the City's repeated attempts to clear the park of homeless people and empty nearby buildings of squatters. Instead of sweeping the area in unified rows, the police with their riot shields became an unruly mob. Some removed their badges as to not be identified in their brutality. As a result, the city completely boarded up the park for a year.  The north side of the park is a huge playground where roller hockey is popular; the goals are just garbage cans on their sides. There's basketball and a happy dog run, perhaps the Big Apple's best. There are new playgrounds for the young. "Hangin' out" on the grasses, which now have flowers, is the main activity here. 

**St. Mark's Place and The Cube:**Walking directly west on St. Marks Place (which becomes 8th Street after 3rd Avenue) brings you to the Cube. This black sculpture is a landmark, second only to the Washington Square Arch as a convenient, visible meeting place, and it rotates. Skater kids usually surround the Cube, but try turning it. Grab hold and push. Don't be discouraged if it's not easy, because its ballbearings frequently need to be oiled. Turning the Cube in the middle of the night has always been a favorite pastime of teenagers.

 

**Washington Square Park:**Head westward on 8th Street, taking in the numerous shops and tiny restaurants at your leisure. Walk all the way to 5th avenue, turn southward, and there's the Washington Square arch designed by Stanford White. It stands majestic as it brings 5th Avenue to a close. The arch was a gateway with 5th Avenue as its through street until the 1960s. Evidence of this is in Harold Lloyd's 1928 movie "Speedy," where a madcap car chase culminates in a dash through the arch.On the north, Washington Square Park is bound by Waverly Place, southward by West 4th Street, eastward by University Place and westward by MacDougal Street. It is accessible by the A, B, C, D, E, F, and Q trains at the West 4th Street and 6th Avenue station; by the N and the R trains at the 8th Street and Broadway station, and by the 4, 5, and 6 trains at the Astor Place station. Surrounded by New York University buildings, it is heavily populated with students. Initially Washington Square Park was a swamp fed by Minetta Brook. A semblance of the creak supposedly passes under a glass window in the bowels of The Minetta Tavern on Minetta Lane. It then became a popular place to hunt, a pauper's field, a military marching ground, and a place to duel. A row of historic houses survives on the park's north side. One of these was Henry James' grandmother's, where he wrote his novel "Washington Square." Every May the park is the scene of thousands of chairs unfolding for neighbouring New York University's commencement exercises. Medievally dressed players sound breathtaking, brass fanfares from atop the arch over a sea of purple robes. In summer, everybody hangs out on the inner steps of the fountain where they watch the water and feel its spray. When it's off the fountain becomes a terrific performance space and has been host to every type of street player. Without mats, The Calypso Tumblers have performed their virtuoso gymnastics act for years. The 60s live on as hippies croak Cat Stevens. Hacky sackers hack. Europeans play Boules. Jamaicans play advanced soccer in an extremely controlled manner. Skater kids exercise feats of daring on the blacktop hills, and the grasses fill with everyone who wants to "chill."
