---
title: "Getting There"
type: section
---

**AIRPORTS **People seem to have a hard time figuring out which airport to fly into when visiting Atlantic City. Of course there is the small Atlantic City Airport, but that really only helps you if you are traveling from Florida, Myrtle Beach, Detroit, Atlanta or Cincinnati. Spirit Airlines (www.spiritair.com) is the main airline at ACY, Delta does 1 flights a day to Atlanta. Atlantic City Airport is 10 miles from Atlantic City. Most people fly into Philadelphia Airport, it is a large airport with most major airlines flying to/from it frequently. It is a 1-hour drive to Atlantic City. Newark Airport would be your second choice, it is 2 hours away. JFK, BWI & LaGuardia are all about a 3 hour drive from Atlantic City, but should be your last options, but are still accessible to Atlantic City. International travels usually have very little choice other than flying into JFK because it is the largest international airport on the east coast with the most choices of Airlines. Ronald Regan/Dulles/Washington DC is the furthest from Wildwood, with a 4 hour drive time.

**AIRPORT SHUTTLES & LIMOUSINES** Most people choose to use car service or limo companies when traveling to Atlantic City from the Airports. A&C Transport (www.actransportonline.com) 609-892-5467 is one such car service. Airport Chariot (www.airportchariot.com) 609-748-3506 provides between the airports and their surrounding areas to the Atlantic City area. TIP: Taking a taxicab from Philadelphia or NYC to Atlantic City costs more than taking a stretch limousine, so be sure you have your ground transportation arrangements made in advance.

**Buses & Trains ***MISCONCEPTION:* There is no public bus or train that travels from Atlantic City Airport to Atlantic City, Wildwood or anywhere else & vice versa. As far as trains are concerned they are difficult to use when traveling to Atlantic City. From NYC you have to first go over to Philadelphia, which is many miles out of ones way. There is no direct rail service from NYC to Atlantic City or Cape May. The train from Philadelphia to Atlantic City is one of the few trains that actually take longer than driving. The train takes between 1 1/2 & 1 3/4 hours to get to Atlantic City. This is due to the fact the train route is not direct, it stops frequently and the tracks swing northward for a while before heading down to Atlantic City. . When flying into Philadelphia you need to take the light rail to the main train station in Philadelphia (30th St. Station), then take a different train to Atlantic City (with a wait in the train station of up to 2 hours). Once in Atlantic City, you can hire a taxi to take you to your Hotel/Casino.

**Contributors**
March 13, 2008
