---
title: "Art Nouveau in Turin"
type: location
---

The tour sets out from piazza Castello. Take via Pietro Micca, named after the hero of the Battle of Turin (1706), which joins piazza Castello to piazza Solferino. It is lined by porticoes on the right and when it was built, in the late nineteenth century, it was known as La Diagonale, because it was the first street in the old centre to break the original Roman perpendicular groundplan. To the right, you see the lanes of the old centre with their palaces and courtyards, Carlo Ceppi's Casa Bellia, adorned with bow windows and turrets, and houses with Art Nouveau and eclectic decorations. To the left are via XX Settembre and via Arsenale, the bank district, and the Church of San Tommaso, one of the oldest in the city, which had to be reduced in size when La Diagonale was being built to allow the new street to follow a perfectly straight line.

  You now enter Piazza Solferino, named after the battle won by Napoleon III during the second War of Independence. This was once the site for a timber market. In the square today you find the Fontana delle 4 stagioni, also known as Fontana Angelica, built by Giovanni Riva in 1930, Panizza's Teatro Alfieri, built in 1857 and originally used for equestrian events, and Balzico's equestrian Monument of Fernando Duca di Genova, son of Carlo Alberto (1887). The horse is depicted very realistically as it slumps to the ground out of sheer fatigue during the Battle of La Bicocca, near Novara, at the end of the first, disastrous War of Independence. It was in one of the offices that overlook the square that the daily newspaper "La Stampa" was founded.

  Continue along via Cernaia, named after a river in Crimea. To the right, in the Giardini Lamarmora, stands the statue of Generale Lamarmora (Cassano, 1867), founder of the "bersaglieri".

  A little further on, stands the Mastio della Cittadella. Shortly after his arrival in Turin, Emanuele Filiberto commissioned the military engineer Francesco Paciotto da Urbino to build a large star-shaped fortress, which was to be considered one of the finest defence systems in Europe, with kilometres of underground tunnels. The citadel played a vital role in the defence of the city. All that remains today are the Mastio, which houses the Museo Nazionale dell'Artiglieria, and long sections of the underground tunnels (Museo Pietro Micca). In front of the Citadel is a canon, which possibly came from the Battle of Lepanto, and the Statue of Pietro Micca, the hero who prevented the Sun King's French army from invading the city via the underground tunnels during the siege of Turin in 1706.

  After the Caserma Cernaia, which houses a training school for "Carabinieri", you come to the Station of Porta Susa, whose name conjures up the Porta Segusina, a Roman gate which stood not far from here at the end of the Decumanus Maximus. On the square in front a small monument by Ceragioli and Biscarra is devoted to Ascanio Sobrero, the inventor of nitro-glycerine.

  You now turn into corso San Martino. Continue as far as piazza Statuto, whose name commemorates Carlo Alberto's granting, on March 4 1848, of the Statute which made Piedmont the first region in Italy to have a parliament of its own. The square was designed by Bollati with porticoes on three sides.

  The monument at the centre of the square commemorates the piercing of the Fréjus railway tunnel between Italy and France at the time of Cavour and Napoleon III. It was made with the collaboration of students at the Accademia Albertina and the winged spirit at the top was sculpted by Belli. A small obelisk, half-hidden among the trees, shows the one end of the geodetic base for the measurement of the latitude of Turin, which the mathematician Cesare Beccaria identified at this point. In Rivoli another obelisk marks the site of the other end.

  Starting from piazza Statuto is corso Francia, a major thoroughfare which runs as far as the Susa Valley. It was originally designed for Vittorio Amedeo II by Garove in 1711 to join Rivoli with Palazzo Reale, but it was actually built only during the reign of Vittorio Emanuele II. The first section crosses the Cit Turin quarter with its characteristic Art Nouveau houses (the style was predominant in building work at the start of the century). In the district there are also many family villas and rent houses. At corso Francia 8 stands Villino Raby, named after its owners, and, at the junction with via Principi d'Acaja, Casa La Fleur, named after the wife of Piero Fenoglio, who built the house for himself and his family. At corso Francia 23 stands Palazzo della Vittoria, built by Carrera in 1925. It is characterised by a large Gothic-like doorway flanked by two winged dragons.

  Many other Art Nouveau houses can be admired in side streets such as via Beaumont, via Piffetti and via Bagetti, in the quadrilateral of via Bossi, via Le Chiuse, via Goffredo Casalis and via Cibrario and in other areas of the city. At the start of the century, in fact, Turin was known as the "capital of Art Nouveau".

  **With courtesy of [Day Trips](/europe/italy/piemonte/turin/toursdaytrips)www. comune.torino.it **
