---
title: "Baroque and Risorgimento Turin"
type: location
---

The starting point for this walk is piazza Castello in front of the Church of San Lorenzo. You see before you the facade of Teatro Regio, behind which towers the spire of the Mole Antonelliana. In the middle of the square stands the Castello, better known as Palazzo Madama, so named because it was lived in, enlarged and decorated by the two Madame Reali, or royal widows, Marie-Christine d'Orléans and Giovanna Battista of Savoy Nemours. For the former, Carlo di Castellamonte built the Salone degli Svizzeri in which the Senate of the Kingdom of Savoy met from 1848 to 1861, and that of the Kingdom of Italy from 1861 to 1864. For the latter, instead, Juvarra built the facade and the monumental staircase. Today the palace houses the Museo Civico di Arte Antica and its rich art collections.

  In front of the palace is Vincenzo Vela's statue of the Standard Bearer of the Swiss Army, which the Milanese presented to Turin in 1857. Enter the Church of San Lorenzo, designed by Guarino Guarini. Albeit devoid of a definite facade, hence slightly inconspicuous, the church boasts a splendid cupola and a sumptuous, harmonious interior, and is an authentic masterpiece of European religious baroque. Leaving the Church you pass the cast iron railings, built in 1841 by Pelagio Palagi, which separate piazzetta Reale from piazza Castello. The two statues of the Dioscuri (by Abbondio Sangiorgio) guard the entrance. You now find in front of you the elegant, serene facade of Palazzo Reale (Carlo and Amedeo di Castellamonte, 1658), for two centuries a Savoy residence and today a museum, one of the most sumptuous royal palaces in Europe. Here many important artists worked in the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and three styles - baroque, rococo and neoclassical - are represented.

  Behind the palace, which contains a central square courtyard from which it is possible to admire a view of the cupola of the Cappella della Sindone, are the Giardini Reali, or Royal Gardens, designed by the architect Le Nôtre, now reduced, alas, to just a third of their original size. They contain a rococo fountain by Simone Martinez, the nephew of Filippo Juvarra. Backtracking through the courtyard and leaving the palace through the front gateway, along to your left is a severe building, which is actually a continuation of Palazzo Reale itself. On the ground floor it houses the Biblioteca Reale, or Royal Library, which contains a wealth of precious volumes, as well as 2,000 drawings, including Leonardo da Vinci's famous self-portrait and his Codex on the flight of birds. On the upper floor is the Armeria Reale, or Royal Armoury, the second largest of its kind in Europe, with its collection of valuable weapons and armour, all works of art in their own right. From the loggia overlooking piazza Castello, King Carlo Alberto declared the First War of Independence on March 23 1848.

  Leaving the building, turn left in the direction of the Teatro Regio. The only surviving part of the original theatre - built in the eighteenth century by Benedetto Alfieri and venue for premieres of many famous operas and performances by great conductors such as Arturo Toscanini - is the facade. The building was, alas, destroyed by a fire in 1936 and reconstructed by the architect Mollino. A recent addition is the railing by Umberto Mastroianni. Alongside the Regio is the Palazzo degli Archivi, or Archive Office, built by Juvarra for Carlo Emanuele III, in which a total of 70 kilometres of shelves tidily store the documents of the history of the Savoys and of Italy. You now cross via Po, which joins piazza Castello to the river. At the bottom of the street, over the river from piazza Vittorio Veneto, the neoclassical Church of the Gran Madre di Dio closes the perspective like some spectacular stage set.

  In piazza Castello itself you pass in front of the small, compact but elaborately decorated Café Mulassano, where films such as "Piccolo Mondo Antico" and "Addio Giovinezza" were shot. Now pass through the Galleria Subalpina, designed by Pietro Carrera (1874), with its famous historical café Baratti & Milano, shops and a restaurant with outside tables. You come out into piazza Carlo Alberto, dominated by the impressive nineteenth-century facade of Palazzo Carignano. On the opposite side of the square are the former stables and orangeries which have now, following wartime bombing, become the Biblioteca Nazionale, or National Library. To your left, at the junction between via Cesare Battisti and via Carlo Alberto is the house of Nietzsche, where the famous philosopher lived during his stay in Turin. Nearby, at via Bogino 9, is Baroncelli's baroque Palazzo Graneri, the home of the Circolo degli Artisti since 1858. Piazza Carlo Alberto is dominated, at the centre, by Marocchetti's equestrian statue of Carlo Alberto, father of the first King of Italy; beside the King stand a grenadier, a lancer, a bersagliere and an artilleryman. Now turn right into via Cesare Battisti and have a walk round Palazzo Carignano. Doing so, it is possible to appreciate the difference between the eighteenth-century part of the palace in brick and the part built in the nineteenth century to house a Parliamentary Chamber large enough to contain the representatives of all the various Italian regions.

  You now find yourself in piazza Carignano, a place which conjures up memories of the glorious era of the Risorgimento, when Turin attracted patriots from all over Italy and the then Palazzo dei Principi di Carignano housed first the Subalpine Parliament, then the Italian Parliament. The chamber itself can be visited as part of the tour of the present-day Museo Nazionale del Risorgimento.In front of Palazzo Carignano are two Turinese leisure-time institutions: Il Cambio, where Cavour had a table reserved, and the Teatro Carignano, where Italy's leading theatre companies have always performed. At the centre of the Square stands the Monument to Gioberti.

  Another impressive building which looks onto the square is the Palazzo dell'Accademia delle Scienze, home of the Museo Egizio, or Egyptian Museum, and the Galleria Sabauda. It is a well known fact that the Museo Egizio is one of the world's most important, second only (perhaps!) to that in Cairo. It is interesting to note the difference between the Palazzo dell'Accademia and Palazzo Carignano. They are both made of brick, are both baroque, both date from the same period (the original designs date from 1679) and were both designed by the same architect, the Theatine Guarino Guarini. Yet the patrons were different. The Palazzo dell'Accademia delle Scienze was commissioned by the Jesuits, who wanted to build a college for the sons of nobles, and is hence more severe. Palazzo Carignano, instead, was built for the Princes of Carignano, and is thus livelier and more elegant. Its lovely undulating facade is an interplay of concave and convex lines and on the windows of the 'piano nobile', it is possible to see the shape of an Indian to commemorate the aid provided by the Princes of Carignano to the French against the Iroquois in Canada. The great halls inside the palace are adorned with beautiful frescoes. Here two kings - Carlo Alberto and Vittorio Emanuele II - were born. Continuing down via Accademia delle Scienze, turn off left into via Maria Vittoria. You immediately find yourself in the forecourt of the single-nave Church of San Filippo, the largest in Turin. Here worked architects of the calibre of Guarino Guarini, Michelangelo Garove and Filippo Juvarra, who designed the facade and the sacristy. Opposite, Palazzo Asinari di San Marzano's spectacular atrium reflects the richness of the city's art.

  A little further along, at via Maria Vittoria 12, stands Palazzo dal Pozzo della Cisterna - now the seat of the Turin Provincial Administration - birthplace of Maria Vittoria who, as wife of the Duke of Aosta, was briefly Queen of Spain. You should now backtrack into piazza San Carlo, whose harmonic appearance makes it one of the world's loveliest. In Roman times, it was just "outside the walls". It owes its structure to Carlo di Castellamonte, who designed it in 1637. Once a corn market and a parade ground, it was the venue for historical festivals and pageants and even a naval battle. Today it serves as a venue for major concerts and its porticoes are popular with shoppers.

  Its centrepiece is Marocchetti's Monument to Emanuele Filiberto (1831-38), affectionately nicknamed "l Caval 'd Brons", or Bronze Horse. Important noble families used to live in the square. One of the most sought after properties was the sumptuous Palazzo Solaro del Borgo at number 183. Once the home of the Accademia Filarmonica, or philharmonic academy, which gave rise to the Conservatoire, it now houses the exclusive Circolo del Whist, founded by Cavour.

  To the north, the T-shaped Galleria San Federico was designed in 1856 by Panizza. Where the Cinema Lux now stands was, in the nineteenth century, the site of the Caffé La Meridiana, a favourite haunt of artists and letterati, amongst whom De Amicis. Numerous historical cafés look onto Piazza San Carlo. They include the Caffé San Carlo, opened in 1822, and once frequented by politicians, letterati and artists, Stratta, which conserves its original sign as a purveyor to the Royal Family, the Caffé Torino and the Caval 'd Brons. On its south side, the square is closed by two baroque churches: San Carlo, which was commenced in 1619 but has an eighteenth-century facade, and Santa Cristina, designed by Carlo di Castellamonte, but with a facade by Juvarra. Before the present-day porticoes were built in 1930-36, Via Roma was as wide - or as narrow - as the gap between the two churches.

  At via Santa Teresa 5 it is possible to admire the Church of Santa Teresa, the foundation stone of which was laid by Christine d'Orléans in 1642. A little further on, at the junction with via San Tommaso, in Roman times stood the Porta Marmorea, the entrance to the city for travellers arriving from Rome. Returning to the porticoes of piazza San Carlo, proceed southwards in the direction of Porta Nuova. Immediately after piazza San Carlo opens out piazza CLN, in which two fountains represent the Po and the Dora, two of Turin's four rivers. To the left, you can see Palazzo Bricherasio, a venue for exhibitions of contemporary art. From via Roma you come to piazza Carlo Felice and the Sambuy Gardens. Looking onto the square is the historical confectioners' shop Avvignano. Opposite stands Porta Nuova, Turin's central railway station, with its fine facade. Designed by Ceppi and Mazzucchetti, it is one of Italy's first and most beautiful stations. All that remains for you to do is make a leisurely stroll back down via Roma to piazza Castello, admiring the shop windows as you go.

  **With courtesy of [Day Trips](/europe/italy/piemonte/turin/toursdaytrips)www. comune.torino.it **
