---
title: "Industrial architecture"
type: location
---

The tour sets out from the station of Porta Susa. Take via Cernaia and turn right into corso Vinzaglio. Once in corso Vittorio, continue to the Monument to the First King of Italy. The statue, the work of Pietro Costa, stands on four tall columns. If you see it from the upper floors of the neighbouring buildings, you have the impression that the King is walking on the rooftops. Turning right into corso Galileo Ferraris, you pass in front of the Galleria d'Arte Moderna (GAM), whose rich collections make it one of the most important modern art galleries in Italy. Behind the gallery in via Bricherasio 8 is the Museo Civico di Numismatica, Etnografia e Arti Orientali, which also houses important collections. Some of its coins originate from classical Greece.

  Turn left again into corso Stati Uniti. You are now in the Crocetta residential quarter, where many houses have private gardens and the eclectic style dominates. At number 27 is Ceppi's Palazzina Ceriana-Mayneri, today the home of the Circolo della Stampa, or press club. You now come to via Sacchi. Passing in front of the Hotel Turin Palace, inaugurated in 1872, you come to the facade of the Station of Porta Nuova. Skirt round the station into via Nizza, then proceed to largo Marconi, where the Church of San Salvario was built by Carlo di Castellamonte for Christine of France in 1646. In front of the church, a small granite obelisk commemorates the victims of rioting in 1821. Down the tree-lined corso Marconi you come to the Castello del Valentino, whose origins date back a long way. A building already stood on the site when Emanuele Filiberto established his court in Turin. The king bought the building and perhaps had it modernised by Palladio.

  Subsequently architects such as Carlo and Amedeo di Castellamonte worked on the site. Here treaties were signed, marriages celebrated and important events staged. Today the castle houses the Faculty of Architecture. Turn right into corso Massimo d'Azeglio. Before entering the subway which allows you to pass quickly under the hospital district, the ochre-coloured Art Nouveau building you see in corso Dante was erected in 1899 as the very first Fiat factory. You emerge from the underpass halfway between the Po to the left and the large hospital buildings to the right. After the CTO skyscraper, to the right you find the Museo dell'Automobile Carlo Biscaretti di Ruffia, built in 1960 by the architect Albertini. It is the only car museum in Italy and one of the most important in the world. In front of the Museum, the large sculpted wheel is the 'Monument to the Driver' by Costa and Verginelli (1965).

  From via Garessio you come to Lingotto, Fiat's second factory, built from a design by the engineer Matté-Trucco in 1923 and originally famous because its vertical production line terminated with the test track on the roof. The factory, which was enormous for its time, used to turn out the Balilla and the Topolino. Today it has been abandoned by Fiat and restructured by Renzo Piano as a veritable monument to industry. It now functions as a multipurpose structure, comprising the largest Conference Centre in Europe, a major fair and exhibition centre and an Auditorium whose outstanding beauty and acoustics make it an ideal concert hall. Taking via Millefonti and turning right into via Ventimiglia, you enter the Italia 61 zone, so-called because it was built to mark the centenary of Italian unification.

  To your left is Palazzo delle Mostre, better known as Palazzo a Vela, because it looks like a huge sail billowing in the wind ('vela' meaning sail in Italian). It was built by the architects Annibale and Giorgio Rigotti. The vault, which rests on only three points, has a surface area of 15,000 square metres.

  Situated on the banks of the Po is the OIT (Organisation International du Travail), a UNO training centre for technicians from underdeveloped countries. The huge parallelepiped just beyond Palazzo a Vela is the Palazzo del Lavoro, built by Pierluigi Nervi in reinforced concrete, glass and steel without load-bearing walls. Its vault is supported by 16 very tall mushroom-like pillars. At this point you can return to downtown Turin along corso Unità d'Italia, crossing the Po over the ponte Balbis and proceeding down corso Moncalieri and up via Po.

  **With courtesy of [Day Trips](/europe/italy/piemonte/turin/toursdaytrips)www. comune.torino.it **
