---
title: "The heart of Turin"
type: location
---

The tour starts from piazza Castello. Take via Po, which joins piazza Castello to the river. The severe, almost 'monarchical' porticoes that line the street on both sides are continuous on the left, where the king used to pass on his way from Palazzo Reale to the Po. On the right, the side of the common citizens, they break off block by block. Piazza Castello, which dates from 1675, the year of the second extension of Turin, is a fine example of modern urban planning. On the left, at number 1, is the Gioielleria Musy, a jeweller's shop which opened in 1707. At number 17 is the gate of the Palazzo dell'Università, whose principal entrance is actually on via Verdi to the rear, once known as via della Zecca, Mint Street. Also situated in via Verdi are the RAI Television Studios, Centre and Museum.

  On the right-hand side of via Po, at the corner of via Bogino, is the historical Caffé Florio, once known as the Caffé dei Codini, a slang reference to the fact that it was once frequented by aristocrats and conservatives, then the Church of San Francesco da Paola, which the first Madama Reale, Christine d'Orléans Valois, had built between 1632 and 1634, and in which great architects and painters, such as Seyter, Legnanino and Guidobono, worked subsequently. The portal is decorated with the fleur-de-lys of France and the shield of Savoy. The former convent at number 18 now houses the Accademia di Medicina.

  Turn right into via Accademia Albertina, home of the Galleria dell'Accademia Albertina. As early as 1430 an association of artists was established and subsequently turned into a guild to which Carlo Emanuele granted the exclusive right to exercise their work. The second Madama Reale also founded an Academy of painters, sculptors and architects. A little further along stands piazza Carlo Emanuele II, better known as piazza Carlina, designed for the second Madama Reale, Giovanna Battista of Savoy Nemours, by Amedeo di Castellamonte in 1678. In the eighteenth century this was the site of a wine, hay and fuel market. During the Napoleonic occupation, when it was known as Piazza della Libertà, it was also where the guillotine was situated.

  Looking onto the square are the Church of Santa Croce, designed by Juvarra in 1718, Vittone's Palazzo del Collegio delle Provincie (1729), now a "carabinieri" barracks (number 4) and Palazzo d'Ormea (number 13) whose facade was designed by Juvarra in 1730. At the centre of the square stands Dupré's marble Monument to Cavour (1873). Proceeding along via Accademia Albertina, to the left you find a large brick building, the Ospedale Maggiore di San Giovanni, commenced by Amedeo di Castellamonte in 1680, and later continued by Baroncelli and Garove. It was built to heal the sick when the campanile di San Giovanni, where they were previously tended to, became inadequate for the purpose. The building now houses the Museo di Scienze Naturali.

  After Palazzo di San Giovanni you come to the Aiuola Balbo, a square-shaped garden which contains several monuments: to Cesare Balbo (by Vela), to Lajos Kossuth, to Daniele Manin (by Vela), to Generale Bava (by Albertoni), to Emanuele Pes (by Tabacchi) and to Gustavo Modena (by Bistolfi). At via dei Mille 22, a plaque records the fact that the Hungarian national hero Kossuth lived in the house. Behind the Aiuola Balbo lies the asymmetrical piazza Cavour and its lovely gardens, whose old name was Giardino dei Ripari, referred to the fact that the city bastions once stood here. At the corner with via Giolitti stands the eighteenth-century Greek Orthodox Church of San Michele, designed by Bonvicini, while at the junction of via Mazzini and via San Massimo, the Church of San Massimo was built by Sada between 1845 and1853.

  In nearby piazza Bodoni, completed in 1835, stands the Conservatorio Musicale Giuseppe Verdi, designed by Ricci and inaugurated in 1828. It is the heir to the Accademia Filarmonica which was housed in Palazzo Solaro del Borgo in piazza San Carlo. At one time piazza Bodoni was the site of a covered fuel market. Today the centrepiece of the square is the equestrian monument of Generale Alfonso Ferrero della Marmora, sculpted in 1891 by Stanislao Grimaldi del Poggetto. Now, heading towards the Po, you come to via della Rocca, so called because a small fort -la rocca - once stood her, e opposite the Bastita dei maletti, a bastion on the Colle dei Cappuccini. The street is a quiet one; it was once known as via dei Nobili because many nobles lived in it. It is lined with art galleries and craftsmen's workshops. Number 33 was once the home of Garibaldi, while la Bela Rósin, morganatic wife of the first King of Italy, lived at number 20, in Palazzo Conelli de Prosperi, designed by the architect Giuseppe Leoni.

  You now enter piazza Maria Teresa, one of the most evocative squares in the city, embellished with trees and flowerbeds and the Monument to Guglielmo Pepe, the Neapolitan patriot. You then return to via della Rocca, cross piazza Vittorio Veneto and proceed down via Vanchiglia. At the junction with corso San Maurizio you come to the Casa dei Carbonari; triangular in shape, it was built by Antonelli in 1821. A little further along, in corso San Maurizio on the corner with via Giulia di Barolo stands a very odd building, the so-called Fetta di Polenta, or "Slice of Polenta", a five-floor house built by Antonelli in 1840. The facade looking onto corso San Maurizio measures 5 metres across while at the rear the breadth drops to just 70 centimetres. Inside there is a very narrow spiral staircase. You now find yourself in Vanchiglia, once a very poor quarter. In the old days it was known as the "Borgo del Fumo", the smoke district.

  The modern Palazzo Nuovo in via Sant'Ottavio houses Turin University's faculties. Opposite towers the Mole Antonelliana, originally intended as a synagogue. It was commenced by Antonelli in 1863 and was terminated only after his death in 1888. It now houses the Museo del Cinema and is regarded as the symbol of the city. When in 1904, a freak cyclone bent the statue of the winged spirit on the spire, the figure had to be replaced by a star. In 1953 another violent storm blew down the top 47 metres of the spire. Today the reconstructed spire is no longer made entirely of stone and brick, so the Mole now no longer holds the record for the highest brick building in the world (it is 167 metres tall). It is possible to reach the temple below the spire by lift for a breathtaking 360° view of the city, the hills and the Alps. Nearby, at via Rossini 15 is the RAI Auditorium, a concert hall with superb acoustics. Once known as the Teatro Vittorio Emanuele II, it was built in 1865 and originally designed to stage equestrian events. The old race course used to be situated nearby. At via Rossini 8 the Teatro Gioberti is the home of the Teatro Stabile della Città di Torino, the city's resident theatre company. The theatre was originally a real tennis court. At the junction between via Verdi and via Montebello, the Cinema Massimo is affiliated with the Museo del Cinema. Heading towards the centre down via Verdi, you pass in front of the modern Centro di Produzione Televisiva della Rai (designed by Cuzzi in 1968). To its rear the Palazzo degli Stemmi looks onto via Po. From here it is a short walk www. comune.torino.it **
