---
title: "The river and the hills"
type: location
---

The point of departure for this run into the greenery is piazza Vittorio Veneto where, if you haven't a car of your own, you can hire an ecological car very cheaply at a park near the pedestrian hexedra. The neoclassical square was designed by Frizzi (1815-30), who cleverly solved the problem of the seven-metre slope from the top of the square to the river by graduating the height of the palaces. It was from a café under the porticoes on the right side of the square that the first RAI radio broadcast - a piano concert - was transmitted. The panorama in front of you is breathtaking; it takes in the Church of the Gran Madre at the centre and, to its left, half-hidden among the greenery, the seventeenth-century Villa della Regina and, further up still, on the top of the hill of the same name, the Basilica of Superga and, to the right, the Colle dei Cappuccini and the Church of Santa Maria del Monte, inside which it is possible to admire the rich collection of the Museo della Montagna, or Mountain Museum .

  Cross the bridge, ponte Vittorio Emanuele I, rebuilt by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1810, after the river broke its banks and destroyed the previous one. This is the point where fording has always been easiest. You now leave behind you the Murazzi, which separate the river from the square. On the right is the departure point for the launches, Valentino and Valentina, which follow the picturesque route down the Po to Moncalieri, where the Savoys had one of their many residences - stopping off at the Parco del Valentino and Italia '61. Once over the bridge, turn left along the Po. One riverside park follows another here; each has a different name but they are all part of one enormous green area, the Parco del Po, which extends the full length of the urban section of the river. Strolling, cycling and - why not? - riding along the river, it is possible to cover kilometres immersed in the greenery.

  The first park you come to is the Parco dello Zoo. After ponte Regina Margherita and Piazza Borromini, you see the Motovelodromo, or motordrome, to the right and, to the left, Parco Michelotti, where the philosopher Nietzsche enjoyed walking and sitting in the shade. Where there is now a boulevard, a canal once flowed, activating a series of mills; it was filled in with the rubble from the old houses of via Roma when reconstruction work was in progress in 1930-36. You now come to the baroque Church of Madonna del Pilone. A little further ahead, again on the left, at corso Casale 205 a marble plaque indicates the house where the writer Salgari used to live. Continue into the Sassi quarter. The word means "stones" in Italian and the quarter is so named because stones were brought here from the hill of Superga to create a vast open space on which to build the basilica itself. To complete his project the architect Filippo Juvarra effectively lowered the hill by 40 metres.

  Nature lovers can walk in the nature park, Parco della Colletta, at the confluence of the Dora and the Po, where many bird species have chosen to live and nest. Proceeding along corso Casale, you come to the station of the Tranvia a dentiera, or rack railway. So again, if you don't have a car or have used public transport, you can make the ascent up the hill of Superga on the railway itself, a little red train making the three-kilometre climb - with 20% gradients in places - to the basilica. Alternatively, the steep and scenic Strada Comunale di Superga allows you to reach the large square at the top of the hill very quickly. Here stands one of Filippo Juvarra's and baroque's greatest masterpieces, the Basilica, built between 1714 and 1731 to fulfil a vow made before the Battle of Turin by Duke Vittorio Amedeo II. The Cappella del Voto, or Chapel of the Vow, to the left of the High Altar houses the seventeenth-century painted wood statue before which the Duke kneeled to pray for protection for the city. In the crypt below the basilica are buried the Savoy kings from Vittorio Amedeo II to Carlo Alberto.

  It was behind the boundary wall of the Basilica that the aeroplane bringing the mythical Torino soccer team back home from Lisbon crashed on May 4 1949. A plaque in front of which people are moved to tears every day commemorates the tragic event. From Superga it is possible to travel an eight-kilometre section of scenic road through the Parco Naturale della collina di Superga. If you wish, you can continue by car as far as the Colle della Maddalena which, at 715 metres, is the highest of the hills round Turin. Here the Parco della Rimembranza commemorates Turin's World War I dead. Rubino's gigantic Faro della Vittoria, or Beacon of Victory, is inspired by the Nike of Samothrace. Here you can admire a 360° view of the breathtaking panorama with an engraved metal direction chart there to help you identify the mountains which surround Turin. From here you can descend to corso Fiume or ponte Isabella.

  Alternatively, at the end of the scenic road, you can descend directly to piazzale Marco Aurelio, turn left along corso Casale and then climb again up corso Gabetti and along corso Quintino Sella towards the Colle dei Cappuccini, past the seventeenth-century Villa della Regina and the park which surrounds it. A little further up is Parco di Villa Genero, which offers fine views of the city below. Dominating the Colle dei Cappuccini is the Church of Santa Maria del Monte, designed by Vittozzi, which houses a Capuchin monastery and, in the wing confiscated under the so-called Siccardi Laws, the Museo Nazionale della Montagna, a museum devoted to Italy's mountains and mountaineering. On clear days, from the belvedere in front of the church it is possible to pick out the peaks and valleys of the Alpine chain behind the city below. You now descend past Piero Fenoglio's Villa Scott, one of the many Art Nouveau villas in the area. This residential quarter is known as Crimea after the war of 1855 to which Cavour sent 15,00 volunteers. An obelisk commemorates the war dead.

  Once down in corso Moncalieri, turn left prior to ponte Umberto I, once known as the ponte delle Catene, or Bridge of Chains, and follow the Po. To your right, on the far side of the river, lies the Parco del Valentino, the city's most famous, romantic park. First you see the unfinished facade of the baroque Castello del Valentino, then the Borgo Medioevale, a medieval village built for the 1884 International Exhibition and a "historical forgery" of unquestionable charm. To your left, after a series of villas among which (albeit not visible from the road) the Vigna di Madama Reale, now known as Villa Abegg, you come to Parco Leopardi, whose many and various trees include sequoias. You now cross the ponte Isabella from which the view is magnificent: to the left, one landing stage follows another as far as the Italia '61 zone, built to mark the centenary of the unity of Italy; to the right, the park, the Castello del Valentino and then, in the background, Alessandro Antonelli's masterpiece, the Mole Antonelliana, intended as a synagogue but now a symbol of the city and the home of the Museo del Cinema. Here, at the turn of the century, there used to be a water airport with sea planes performing a daily service on Italy's first air line: Turin-Pavia-Venice-Trieste.

  Immediately after the bridge, turn right in front of Palazzo di Torino Esposizioni, a 10,000-square-metre single-space exhibition centre designed by Pierluigi Nervi. On the adjoining square stands what is widely regarded to be the masterpiece of the sculptor Davide Calandra, a statue of Amedeo di Savoia Duca d'Aosta at the Battle of Custoza during the Third War of Independence.

  From here you can walk through the Giardino Roccioso, or Rock Garden, and descend to the river, on the bank of which stands the picturesque Borgo Medioevale, a mock mediaeval village built for the 1884 Exhibition copying buildings which really existed in Piedmont and the Val d'Aosta in the fifteenth century. The intention was to create an art exhibition on the Middle Ages, bringing all these buildings together within a single wall and trying to give visitors a demonstration of what life was like in that period. The Rocca, or castle, which dominates the village is the sum-total of different works, from the courtyard of the Castle of Fenis, to the paintings of the Castle of Manta and the Abbey of Sant'Antonio di Ranverso. A multimedia tour is available to allow the visitor to make a veritable leap into the past.

  Form here you can take the launch for a ride on the Po as far as Italia '61 or even as far as Moncalieri, a beautiful little town in which it is possible to admire the Castle, a Savoy residence for a long period. From the Borgo Medioevale you return through the park to Carlo Ceppi's spectacular Fontana dei dodici mesi, the Fountain of the Twelve Months, designed for the 1898 Exhibition. After passing under ponte Isabella you come to corso Dante, where the first Fiat factory was founded in 1899. Turn right here into corso Massimo D'Azeglio.

  You are now walking along the edge of the Parco del Valentino. The park has an area of about 550,000 square metres and was designed in 1864 by Barillet Déchamps, an architect who was a member of Baron Haussman's team. Until the early years of this century, there was a pond on which it was possible to skate in winter. You now leave the Istituto Elettrotecnico Galileo Ferraris, which transmits the official Italian time signal, to your left. On the right you pass Villa Glicini, founded in 1844, the first gymnasium in Italy, the Promotrice di Belle Arti, which has been organising major art exhibitions since 1914, and the facade of the Castello del Valentino, now the home of the Turin University Architecture Faculty, the Boschetto Botanico and Orto Botanico (botanical wood and gardens), founded by Vittorio Amedeo II, and the Botany Faculty. At the bottom of corso Massimo D'Azeglio, turn right into corso Vittorio Emanuele, originally called viale dei Platani, or Plane Tree Avenue, then corso del Re, the King's Avenue.

  The large archway you see to your right is a monument to the artillery, while straight ahead of you beyond the river is the Obelisco di Crimea. Turn left before the bridge along lungopo Cairoli and admire the view of the hills away to your right. A few yards along stands the Monument to Garibaldi, designed by Tabacchi in 1887. Proceeding along the river you return to piazza Vittorio Veneto.

  **With courtesy of [Day Trips](/europe/italy/piemonte/turin/toursdaytrips)www. comune.torino.it **
