---
title: "Practical Information in British Columbia"
type: section
---

Attractions and Sightseeing in British Columbia, Canada
In Northern British Columbia you will find an elusive and stimulating blend of old and new. The vast wilderness area of Northern British Columbia is an unspoiled masterpiece of nature. The mountain ranges, which dominate the northern landscape, were shaped by volcanic fire then folded and raised by powerful forces below the earth''s surface. The rugged, heavily forested valleys between them were carved by the glaciers, which at one time covered most of the province. Much of Northern British Columbia is preserved and protected by a world-class system of provincial parks. They range from pristine wilderness areas accessible only by horseback, charter plane or on foot to idyllic lakeside campgrounds with every amenity. They embrace turquoise-colored glacial lakes, alpine meadows, hot springs, volcanic cinder cones and a miniature Grand Canyon.

Rarely do you find a region that contains within its boundaries four National Parks! The BC Rockies region is home of Yoho, Kootenay, Glacier and Mount Revelstoke National Parks all featuring stunning beauty and vistas. The range of activities available in the BC Rockies is truly astounding. There is adventure hiking, mountain climbing, mountain biking, river rafting, canoeing, sailing, water skiing, windsurfing and fishing. There''s golfing at its best, sunbathing on lakeside beaches and lots of historic sites. Ski and snowboard resorts are located throughout the region and world-renown heli and cat skiing operations access the steep and deep of the numerous ranges. Snowmobilers love the awesome terrain and the ambience of the friendly communities. Festivals, shopping and great eateries can be found in every corner of the region.

Nature has blessed the Vancouver Island Region with natural beauty, mild climate, and friendly people, ensuring this destination is one you''ll never forget - a place where wonders never cease!! This region offers a diverse range of world class cultural, recreational, natural and wildlife attractions year-round. The scenic location between ocean and mountains enables a spectacular range of visitor experience, and we invite you to encounter all that Vancouver, Coast & Mountains has to offer. From internationally acclaimed entertainment and attractions in Greater Vancouver, cycling, hiking or boating on our famed Sunshine Coast, driving through Sea to Sky Country with its scenes of glacier carved peaks and waterfalls on your way to Whistler Resort or enjoying the rich history and thrilling adventure of Mighty Fraser Country. Find out more on Travelpack.com: http://www.travelpack.com/guide/canada/british-columbia
