---
title: "Rajan pur"
type: location
---

Travel Guide

Rajanpur , 29:06N, 70:19E, is a city and the headquarters of the Rajanpur district and tahsil in the extreme southwest part of Punjab , Pakistan . The district lies entirely west of the Sindhu river ( Indus river ); it is a narrow, 20 to 40 miles wide strip of land sandwitched between the Sindhu river on the east and the Sulaiman range of hills and mountains on the west. The town is approximately nine miles from the right (west) bank of the river. In 1998 it had a population of 42,986 (census figure).

Rajanpur was either founded by or occupied and renamed as Rajanpur by a warlord Makhdoon Shaikh Rajan in 1772-73. It remained a small and little known village located on the road from Dera Ghazi Khan in Punjab to Sukkur in Sind until 1862. In that year, Mithankot , a larger and more prosperous town, located on the Sindhu river several miles southeast of Rajanpur was completely destroyed by river floods. The administrative offices of the Assistant District Commissioner of the British government were moved from Mithankot to Rajanpur, because of its location at a safe distance from the river. It became a municipality and the tahsil headquarters in 1873. Rajanpur district has three tehsils; Jampur in the north, Rajanpur in the center and Rojhan in the south. In addition, there is a "tribal area" in the hills of Sulaiman range. Asni , Dajal, < Fazilpur >, Harand , Hajipur, Jampur, Lalgarh, Mithankot , Muhammedpur, Rajanpur, Rojhan , and Umerkot are the large or historic towns and cities in the district. [Jam Pur] has got a central role in the main economy for this district. It is the highly productive city with very high GDP. It is in the north of Rajan Pur. The literacy rate in Jam Pur is highest than any other towns of distric Rajan Pur. There are many schools and colleges including government and private institutions. A huge no of students study in big colleges and universities and play vital role for the good name of Fazil Pur . There many doctors, engineers, politicians and agriculturists.Most ren. It is very rapidly growing in population and business. The main reason for its productivity is that it is the central point for many of its surrounding rural areas like Dera ghazi khan, Kotla Mughlan, Basti Lishare, Dajal and many others.

**Baloch Tribes **The main balochi tribe of this region are the Gopang, Mazari,Buzdar, Laghari,Darishak and Gorchani. All the balouch tribes are famous for their bravery and hospitality. They honour their guest more than anything. < Gopang > is a big tribe, well known for its bravery and literacy rate is growing in its family members. Lighari tribe is also famous and Farooq Khan Lighari also served as the acting president of Pakistan. Mazari belong to the "Hoth" branch of Baloch Nation while Gorchani are divided into two groups Dodai and Rind o Lashar. Mir Balakh Sher Mazari is the current reigning Chief of the Mazari Tribe while Sardar Farooq Jalab Khan Gorchani is tribal chief of Gorchanis.Darishak have many chiefs. Famous is Nussrullah khan Darishak.

[JHULLAN FAMILY]:Jhulan family is the biggest family of tahsil Rojhan.They are called JAAM.[JHULLAN] of Bangla Hadayat are more fame than the others as they ae financially strong. Jhullan are very hardworking and peace loving people.JHULLAN are found in the adjioning areas of Rojhan city and also at Bangla Ichha and Kacha Chauhan. A large number of Jhullan are found in Distt. Rahim Yar Khan and Bahawalpur. The well known ,famous and educated names of Jhullan family of Tahsil Rojhan are Dr.Prof.Rab Nawaz Monis,A.B.Ashraf and Aslam Shad.
