---
title: "Beaches"
type: section
---

The Beaches in Calabria 

The beach in **Gioia Tauro **(1Km from our villa) is combo of 90% sand and 10% pebbles. (If you have sensitive feet we suggest you bring slip-on beach slippers for walking comfort). It's 3Km in length (great for taking those long beach walks) 75 meters wide thus plenty of space. There are several lido's, restaurants, bars and outdoor showers (during peak season). This beach is very under developed it's very family oriented and not over crowded. Lot's of free parking. Because it has no cliffs or mountains around, there's a constant breeze from the sea. On a clear day you can see the Lipari Islands and Capo Vaticano. The water is crystal clear - aqua marine. 

The beach in **Palmi** (7Km from the villa) is combo of 95% sand and 5% pebbles. (If you have sensitive feet we suggest you bring slip-on beach slippers for walking comfort). It's 1Km in length and in a cove 50 meters wide thus can be very crowded. There are several well established lido's, restaurants, bars. Free parking is limited (during peak season). This beach is moderately developed with family & singles attending and can be very crowded. It's surrounded by cliffs and mountains, there's little to no breeze from the sea. On a clear day you can see the Lipari Islands. The water is crystal clear - aqua marine. 

The beach in **Tropea** (50Km from the villa) is 100% sand. * Voted one for the TOP 10 beaches in Italy 2004. The sand is granular and soft. It's 500 meters in length 30 meters wide thus can be very crowded. There are a few restaurants, bars and no outdoor showers. This beach is moderately developed and family/singles oriented. Hard to find free parking (during peak season). It's surrounded by cliffs, there's a light breeze from the sea. On a clear day you can see the Lipari Islands. The water is crystal clear - aqua marine. 

The beach in **Capo Vaticano** (40Km from the villa) is 100% sand. The sand is granular and soft. It's 500 meters in length and 30 meters wide thus can be very crowded. There are a many restaurants, bars and no outdoor showers (during peak season). This beach is moderately developed and family/singles oriented. Hard to find free parking (during peak season). It's surrounded by cliffs, there's little to no breeze from the sea. On a clear day you can see the Lipari Islands. The water is crystal clear - aqua marine. 

The Beach in **Scilla** (20Km from the villa) is 100% sand. The sand is granular and soft. It's 1 km in length 60 meters wide thus it's not crowded. There are a several restaurants, bars and no outdoor showers (during peak season). This beach is moderately developed and family/singles oriented. Very hard to find free parking (during peak season). It's surrounded by cliffs, there's little to no breeze from the sea. On a clear day you can see the Lipari Islands and the coast of Sicily. The water is crystal clear - aqua marine. 

The new beach in **Reggio di Calabria** (50Km from the villa) is 100% sand. (the sand was brought in from Gioia Tauro). It's 1Km in length (great for taking those long walks) 25 meters wide thus little space. There are many lido's, restaurants, bars and outdoor showers (during peak season). This beach is very developed. Families and singles enjoy this beach not crowded. Lot's of free parking. Because it has no cliffs or mountains around, there's a constant breeze from the sea. You can see the coast of Sicily and mount Etna. The water is crystal clear - dark blue. 

The beach on the **Ionian Sea** (Capo Rizzuto, Locri, Soverato, Rocella etc) (50+Km from the villa) is 100% sand. Most beach towns have 4Km length beaches (great for taking those long walks) 60 meters wide thus lot's of space. There are many lido's, restaurants, bars no outdoor showers (during peak season). The beaches are very developed. Many singles enjoy these beach thus they can be very crowded. Lot's of free parking. Because there are no cliffs or mountains around, there's a constant breeze from the sea. If you listen closely...you can hear the drums from Africa :) The water is crystal clear - aqua marine.
