---
title: "Getting Around"
type: section
---

Transportation within the city of Ottawa is excellent whether on foot, by bus, bike or less conventional modes of transportation. The city's major advantage is that the downtown core is very compact and many of the sites and attractions are accessible on foot. Guided sightseeing tours, many of which operate on a schedule with flexible "on-off" privileges, allow visitors to stop and see the attractions of their choice. Sightseeing can be done via a walking tour, on an air-conditioned coach, a motorized trolley or on an authentic British double-decker bus. To experience the city up-close, visitors can rent a bicycle and pedal along Ottawa's designated bike lanes and scenic paths; or, pamper themselves and hire a rickshaw. Boat cruises along the Rideau Canal, Rideau River or Ottawa River are also a good way to see the sights. 

From May until October, train buffs can enjoy a half day trip along the beautiful Gatineau River on one of Canada's last authentic steam-powered trains; the steam train is the only one of its kind still operating in eastern Canada. Ottawa also boasts one of the most modern public transit systems in North America. As well, there are many taxi and car rental firms available to transport visitors around the town. For tourists in town and out using their own vehicles, they can relax - traffic in and around the capital is light and it's easy to get around. 

The City-funded public transportation system, *OC Transpo*, consists of an extensive bus system and a single light-rail line. The Transitway is OC Transpo's backbone; it is a network of bus-only roads that cross the city, offering high-speed and traffic-free connections. Thus, a ride from the airport to downtown takes only 20 minutes. The light-rail line, known as the O-Train, was built as a transit experiment and is consequently a short route; its main use is to serve Carleton University. That said, the city is planning a major expansion of the light-rail system over the next decade. OC Transpo is relatively inexpensive. Fares on busses are generally $2.50 cash or two 85¢ tickets available at many bus stations and area stores (busses that run to more rural locations have higher fares). A child's fare is $1.25 or one 85¢ ticket. A transfer can be requested at no additional charge, offering unlimited travel on both bus and train in any direction until the time printed (around two hours). A Daypass, $6, allows unlimited travel all day. The O-Train tickets are purchased at automated terminals for $2.00 (85¢ tickets are **not** valid on the O-Train); these also offer unlimited transfers on both bus and train for about two hours. The OC Transpo system links up with Gatineau's *STO *bus system in downtown Ottawa. Transfers from either system allow travel on the other; however, a small supplement is sometimes needed to transfer from the OC Transpo to STO system.
