# Wong Tai Sin

*Asia > Northeastasia > China > Hongkong > Kowloon > Sights > Wongtaisin*

Wong Tai Sin takes its name, in fact, from a legendary shepherd who learned the art of healing. In short, a visit to this temple, surrounded by vast, government housing estates, provides insight into Chinese religious practices and is well worth a stop despite its out-of-the-way location. Wong Tai Sin is Hong Kong's most popular Taoist temple, visited by more than 3 million worshipers. Although the temple itself dates only from 1973, it adheres to traditional Chinese architectural principles with its red pillars, two-tiered golden roof, blue friezes, yellow latticework, and multicolored carvings. What makes the temple so popular, however, is that everyone who comes here is seeking information about their fortune--from advice about business or horse racing to determining which day is most auspicious for a wedding. Most worshipers make use of a bamboo container holding numbered sticks. After lighting a joss stick and kneeling before the main altar, the worshiper gently shakes the container until one of the sticks falls out. The number corresponds to a certain fortune, which is then interpreted by a soothsayer at the temple. You can wander around the temple grounds, on which can be found halls dedicated to the Buddhist Goddess of Mercy and Confucius; the Nine Dragon Garden, a Chinese garden with a pond, waterfall, and a replica of the famous Nine Dragons mural (the original is in Beijing's Imperial Palace); the Good Wish Garden, a replica of the Yi He Garden in Beijing with circular, square, octagonal, and fan-shaped pavilions, ponds, an artificial waterfall, and rocks and concrete fashioned to resemble animals; and a clinic with both Western medical services and traditional Chinese herbal treatments.

World66 rating:
