---
title: "Kittery"
type: location
---

Kittery, often pronounced (kit-TREE) by locals, is one of the most frequented and well-known places in Maine. Just over the Piscataqua Bridge separating New Hampshire form Maine, it is famous for two things, but most visitors are only aware of one: Shopping outlet malls as far as the eye can see. Now, the lesser known but significanlty more insightful fact: it is Maine's oldest town, settled in 1623 and is rich in history. In 1905 the Treaty of Portsmouth was signed at the Kittery Navy Yard's, ending the Russo-Japanese War.  You could never tell as you crawl down the infamous Route 1 stretch passing 120 of your most famous commercial and retail outlets that it held any history whatsoever, MacDonalds is the closest thing to an museum, the river a mere inconvenience as you pass over it to the next realm of shopping glee. Bostonians flock here as it is an easy escape from the city. Mass plates outnumber Maine plates as a rule.  But this is not Kittery, its just what people see and have learned to associate with the town. Any Mainer worth a salt will go on and on about the beauty and history of the town, once you leave the craziness of the shopping district. Locals view the mall district with opposing views, it destroys character of a lovely New England town, but generates revenue, and supplies jobs. It is a constant battle between progress, development, and preservation. Traffic is a major issue as it backs up for miles. There have been many a moratorium for further development, and many a town meeting on the subject.  Regardless, Kittery is the gateway to Maine, and a major landmark of the state. The choice is up to you, blow by it and miss out on the shopping experience for more natural ventures up north, or leave the mosquitoes and mud and shop until dizzy with excitement. "The way it should be"
