---
title: "When to Go in Lvov"
type: section
---

This will be the second time that St. Nicholas brings “**Half Price Weekend in Lviv”** to her citizens and guests. The 50% discount on a range of services is a present that the tourist industry of Lviv is ready to offer from the 17th-19th of December, 2010 (this includes accommodation, food services, excursion services, visits to museums and leisure activities).
More information about the “Half Price Weekend in Lviv” project is available in mass-media, internet news sources, and airline carriers. Photos and a list of discounted services and participants can be found at the following websites: www.lviv.travel, www.visitlviv.net and www.city-adm.lviv.ua.

The first ones to bring you this gift from St. Nicholas are:

Hotels: Lion's Castle, Dnister, Vintage, Leopolis, Hetman, Eurohotel, Sykhiv, Misterhostel, Citadel Inn Hotel and Resort

Tourist Agencies: Dana K, Chudo Tour, Kyy Avia West, Mandry Plus, Vsesvit, Halitsiya-Tour, Halintour, Riturnel', Tango Travel, Krylos Kom (vidviday.com.ua), Inlviv, TurdeLviv.

Additional benefits: “Yellow & Blue” Clothing Shop by Ukrainian Designers Saint Nicholas in Ukraine prepares pleasant surprises, not only for children but for adult participants of the festival.
 On this page. you can see the institutions that give the feast day of St. Nicholas and to provide a great 50% discount. Not only tourist but residents of the city can also use this gift.
Give yourself a gift: Come to Lviv!
**Hotels **
 1. Lion's Castle  Contact: Lviv, Glinky street, 7 (side street. Gvardiyska)  tel. +38 (050) 3734295 Fax: +38 (032) 2378251  info@lioncastle.lviv.ua, www.lioncastlehotel.com  Accommodation: 50% discount on rooms in hotels of all categories of Lion's Castle.   Special menu: Green hills Park café: Cesar salad with chicken 150g - 17.5 UAH (2.20 USD), Farfale pesto sauce 250g -17.50 UAH (2.20 USD), with Penny pomidorovym Sauce 300g – 15.00 UAH (1.89 USD), with Spaghetti Bolognese Sauce 300g - 20 UAH (2.52 USD), with chicken broth 200g - 9 UAH (1.13 USD), coffee - 4 UAH (0.5 USD), Tea – 7.5 UAH (0.94 USD), banana-apple pie 100g - 5 UAH (0.63 USD), vodka World Noble 50g - 5 UAH (0.63 USD) (prices include 50% discount)
 2. Dnister Contact: Lviv, Mateyka st, 6  tel. +38 (032) 2974323, tel. / fax: +38 (032) 2971017  reservation@dnister.lviv.ua
 3. Vintage Boutique Hotel  Contact: Lviv, Staroyevreyska st, 25-27  tel. +38 (032) 235-68-34, +38 (032) 235-70-24  info@vintagehotel.com.ua   www.vintagehotel.com.ua  Accommodation: from 17th to 19th of December (2 nights for half price)
 4. Leopolis Contact: 79008 Lviv, Theatral'na st, 16  tel. +38 (032) 2959500, +38 (032) 2959503, fax + 38 (032) 2959599  sales@leopolishotel.com, hotel@leopolishotel.com  Accommodation: 19th, 20th and 21st of December (3 nights for half price)  Special meals: Breakfast Buffet

5. Getman Contact: Lviv,V.Velykoho st, 50 tel. 38 (032) 2399090 hetman.reservation @ rambler.ru Accommodation: Accommodation in double rooms at half price. Special meals: Breakfast, lunch and dinner.
 6. Misterhostel Contact: Lviv,Bankivs’ka st, 5 tel. / Fax: 38 (032) 2720716, 38 (067) 6708234 misterhostel@gmail.com, www.misterhostellviv.com Accommodation: 2 x double room on the floor – 60 UAH/adult (7.55 USD). 3m Double room on the floor - 55 UAH/adult (6.92 USD). 4x double room on the floor - 50 UAH/adult (6.29 USD). 6ty bed room on the floor - 45 UAH/adult (5.66 USD). 2x double room with facilities in the room - 75 UAH/adult (9.43 USD). 3m Double room with amenities in the room - 65 UAH/adult (8.18 USD). 4x double room with facilities in the room - 60 UAH/adult (7.55 USD). Others: kitchen with microwave, kettle, crockery, TV, refrigerator, computer, Internet, Wi-Fi, iron, ironing board. Bedclothes, towels as needed

7. Eurohotel  Contact: 79005, Lviv,Tershakovciv st, 6 A
tel. +38 (032) 2757214, 242 31 601 info@eurohotel.lviv.ua; www.eurohotel.lviv.ua
Accommodation: 10 rooms Superior, price 350 UAH/day (44.03 USD).  
8.Hotel “Sykhiv”
Contact: 14 Morozna St. Lviv, 79066
tel. +38 (032) 232-5015; +38 (032) 232-5005
info@hotelsykhiv.com; www.hotelsykhiv.com
Available accommodations: 30 deluxe and standard rooms, with prices from 160 UAH to 190 UAH per night for standard rooms, and 425 UAH for deluxe rooms.

9.Citadel Inn Hotel & Resort
Contscts:: Lviv, 11 Hrabovskoho St. , вул. Грабовського,11
tel:. +38 (032) 2957090, fax +38 (032)29590000
resrvation@citadel-inn.com.ua; www.citadel-inn.com.ua
Accomodation: 18th th , 19th and 20th of December (3 nights) грудня (3 ночі)MealsBreakfast “A-LA-CARTE”
Other:Sauna- 50% off. — 50%.

10.NCP, Ecocollege
Contacts: Lviv, 7 Yana Rainisa St.
Tel. +38 (032)2422646
eklnau.ucoz.ru; wikgwo@bigmir.net
Accommodation: Rooms in the dormitory of the college — 25 UAH per person. (Without a discount it's 50 UAH per person)
 **Travel Agencies **
 1. Dana - K  Contact: Lviv, Svobody avenue, 41  tel. +38 (032) 242-15-51, phone / fax +38 (032) 225-58-97  svoboda-dana@mail.lviv.ua
 2. KY Palace West  Contact: Lviv, Galycka square, 14  tel. +38 (032) 2975373  kawest@mail.lviv.ua, www.kawest.com.ua  Tours: All tours for half price

 3. Mandry Plus  Contacts: 79014, Lviv, Muchna st, 47 / 4  Tours: All tours for half price   4. Vsesvit Contact: Lviv, F.Lista st, 3 / 3  tel. +38 (032) 297-05-68, +38 (032) 297-15-58  mira@wseswit.lviv.ua, www.wseswit.lviv.ua  Travel route: 18,12, 19.12 at 11:00
Tour of "Old Lviv" (3 hours). – 20 UAH/adult (2.52 USD) Introduction to the history and architectural character of the city. Overview of the most interesting sights - old buildings, cathedrals, parks, fortifications, etc. Visit the “Vysokyy Zamok” and get the opportunity to see the city with a bird’s eye view! The passage of a unique medieval part of town, listed in the UNESCO World Heritage List: Rynok Square, Latin Cathedral, Boim Chapel, Kornyakta bell, Dominican Cathedral ... Exciting stories about famous people who lived and stayed in the Lion City, and created history. Visit unique places of the ancient city – the Italian and Armenian courts. Climbing the 65-meter Lviv city hall with a panoramic overview of downtown. Lviv legends, fables and historic curiosities. Architectural kaleidoscope: Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque, Classicism, Empire psevdostyli, art nouveau, eklevtyka ... Lviv var'yaty and cafes. And much more! During the tour you will see and hear about all the most ... most ... most ... in. For those who are first time guests to the city, this tour will be an excellent introduction to the city, but even if you've been in our capital of Galicia, you may still discover a lot.  18.12 at 14:00

Adventure "Fortification of the ancient city" (3 hours) – 20 UAH/adult(2.52 USD) This tour offers the most complete information about the defensive system of the medieval city: the city walls, Vysokyy and Nyznkyy castles, towers, moats, ramparts, gates, underground tunnels ... You will see the remains of defensive structures, learn about their history, the siege and assaults on city, and the heroic defense of the city from the numerous enemies. Adventure introduces not only the fortifications of downtown and nearby monasteries that were part of the defense system of the city. You hear the story of the fraternity Rifle - a kind of “school of chivalry” in the medieval Lviv, which prepared the townspeople to defend the city.  18.12 at 15:00 Tour “Lviv Austrian” (2 hours) – 15 UAH/adult (1.89 USD)  Walking tour of the Austrian quarter of the city: Prospectus Svobody, University of Iv. Franko, St.Yuriy Cathedral - seat of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, National University Lviv Polytechnic, ensemble streets of Stepan Bandera and Kopernyka st, : Memo revival St. Lazarus, Citadel’na mountain, museum of the book "Mermaid Dnistrova", Lviv Scientific Library of Mr. Stefanyk, a modern art center of the city: art gallery, Art Palace, Palace of Potockyy.  18.12 at 18:00
Adventure Lions mystical (2 hours) - 15 UAH/adult (1.89 USD)  Adventure is a novelty in the tourism market in Lviv! Tourists will learn about Lviv’s mysteries from ancient times to present day. Stories about ghosts, alchemists, vampires ... Visit the underground church of the Jesuit monk ghost or the Dominican church and the underground Pharmacy museum where you will visit the room of the eerie alchemist. Unsolved mysteries of the ancient city, suicide, and legends – all mystically themed tours of Lviv!  19.12 at 15:00 Adventure "Lviv cemetery" (2 hours) - 15 UAH/adult (1.89 USD)  The open air museum. Visit the oldest cemetery in Europe: Weeping Madonna, Franko’s Grave, Shashkevych, Ivasiuk, Krushelnytska, graves of the rebels of 1862, Orlyat, Sichovyh Strilciv and participants of the second St. War.  19.12 at 15:00 Tour “Lviv - City of Coffee” (2 hours) - 15 UAH/adult (1.89 USD)  During the tour, you will learn about the history of coffee consumption, its way to Europe and to the city. You will hear stories about the struggle of coffee in medieval Europe and Asia, its causes and consequences and a lot of different information about this popular drink and all that it is connected to. The first coffee houses in Europe and in Lviv. Traditions and old customers in Lviv’s coffee houses. Stories and funny incidents. Types of coffee and how to use them ... We welcome all Coffee-maniacs and supporters of this popular drink!  Each excursion participant
will receive a free city card

5. Galicia TOUR  Contact: Lviv, Sichovyh Stril'civ st 4, apt 23  tel. +38 (032) 2425474, tel. +38 (032) 248701  office@galicia-tour.lviv.ua, http://www.galicia-tour.lviv.ua  We offer two-day tours of collective "Oh, someone who loves St. Nicholas?"  Tour Dates: 18-19.12.2010  The tour program consists of the following:  Day 1: Arrive to Lviv, self check-in at hotel 10.00 - meet your guide at the Opera House, tour of the medieval streets of the city (3.30 hrs.) Excursion to the National Museum of A. Sheptytskoho. An overview of the Life and work St. Nicholas exhibition will enable you to learn more about the wonders and endless love and good works of St. Nicholas. Free time for walking around the city, visiting the Winter Fair.  Day 2: 10.00 - Tour of "City with the aroma of coffee" (1.30 hrs.), Visit the Lviv Historical Museum, the Historical Treasures exhibition, free time. Optional visit to the Organ Hall, theatres, museums of our city.  The tour:  550 * UAH. - 50% = 275 UAH (35 USD). Children under 12 years ext. place 150 UAH (18.87 USD) 650 ** UAH -50% = 325UAH (40.88 USD)!  Children under 12 years ext. place 200 UAH (25.16 USD)! Included:  1. Accommodation  2. Excursions  Not included:  1. Admission to the program. 2. Insurance. 3. Food. 4. Personal expenses. Other: we also offer a variety of themed tours Lviv, Lviv tours in the Carpathians and Transcarpathian, organization corporative and other celebrations and more.

6. Galintur Contact: Lviv, Oleny Stepanivny st, 2 tel. + 380987114557, fax 032 233 1934 2009 galintour@mail.lviv.ua; www.galintour.lviv.ua Walking Tour "streets" - duration 2 hours. Defense building, monument of Danilo Galician, Bernardine monastery, Rynok Square, "black store”, Kornyakta house with the Italian yard, Armenian quarter, cultural and artistic center "Dzyga", City Hall (Ratusha), the pharmacy museum, Assumption Church, Boim Chapel, Churches: Cathedral, Dominican, the Opera House. Guided tour per person: 40UAH (5.03 USD). , during the action 20UAH (2.52 USD). Excursions are offered to: "Vysokyy Zamok", “Lychakiv cemetery“, " Davnoruskyy Lviv"," “Austrian Lviv”.
 7. RITURNEL Contact: Lviv, Vodoginna st, 2, apt. 101 tel. 0322422826, fax. 0322422827 riturnet-info@ukr.net; www.riturnel.lviv.ua Travel route: "Little Paris for two", "City with a taste of coffee", "Beer Tour to the city", "Lviv for children" ... If it rains in Lviv "," Lion’s Golden Horseshoe”.

8. Tango Travel Contact: 79 008 Lviv, Jaroslava Osmomysla square, 1 apt. 6 tel. 0322367563, 380676763217, fax 0322367565 office@tangotravel.com.ua; http://tangotravel.com.ua Travel route: special 2 day tour called “With St. Nicholas to the Lviv”. 1 day in Lviv. Meeting tourists representative of the company Tango Travel. Transfer to hotel accommodation (complies with the rules of the hotel). 10:00 - Tour of Medieval Lviv. Lviv - the city that is at the crossroads of trade routes and geographical areas, which makes it unique. The city will never be on the sidelines of history, it was the center of the strategic plans of aggression authorities of different times and different peoples. Each left behind a monument. Tour departs the oldest part of town that survived to the present day: the Opera House - one of the most beautiful in Europe, Jesuit Church, Cathedral, Rynok Square, Assumption complex, Dominican Church, Pharmacy Museum (optional), and the Armenian Cathedral Square. Galician Square, square of A. Mickevych. 15.00 - Visit the Museum of Folk Architecture and Life "Shevchenkivskyy Grove" - ethno-park in Lviv, which represents life in Western Ukraine. Visiting the museum, you will become familiar with the architectural features of different construction zones in Western Ukraine. The museum is a residential building, household, wooden churches (some force), smithy, school, sawmill, fulling, water mill and windmill. Place to sleep Day 2 Breakfast. Check out of room (things remain at a storage site). Free time. Recommended tour: the Golden “Horseshoe of Lviv” (150UAH, 18.87 USD). The territory of the Lviv region has always belonged to princes and noble families who built here with vigor their castles and family estates. During this tour, we offer an unforgettable journey to the castles of the Lviv region, which have survived to this day. “Pidgoretskyy Castle” was built in the 17th century led by architect Andrea del Aqua at the direction of the crown hetman Stanislav Konetspolskyy. It is one of Europe's best samples of Renaissance palace with fortified a bastion. Its decoration is also an Italian park and a family chapel “Geshovkyy”. “Oleskyy castle”- an eminent monument of architecture and history of the XIII-XVIII centuries. The history of the castle is extremely versatile, because at different times its owners fought different ideas and the castle remained a silent witness to all these events. “Zolochevskyy Castle” entrance tower, the Chinese Palace, and a large residential palace create a Renaissance ensemble that at various times was a fortress, royal residence, Mansion, prison, and educational institution. So the legends of the castle are lost. This tour will take you through the Middle Ages, royal charm atmosphere points, the king's house and castle walls. Farewell from Lviv. Transfer to the station. The price includes: * Meeting tourists’ representative of the Tango Travel company  * Tour escort * Tour: “Shevchenkivskyy Grove”, “Medieval Lviv” * Breakfast * Transfers * Gift for St. Nicholas Day from “Tango Travel” agency. * Hotel accommodation. Not included: * Personal expenses * Attendant * Tickets * Travel by public transport The program is conducted with a minimum of 2 persons, price 400 UAH (50.31 USD) per person.

9. Krylos-Com Contacts: Lions Chornovil Ave ,7 (Hotel “Lviv”), 3 floor, apt 321. phone / fax (032) - 260-04-10, vidviday.com.ua @ gmail.com, www.vidviday.com.ua Travel route: Tour "Meeting Lviv" Duration: 3 hours. Tour days: Friday, December 17 and Saturday, December 18. Cost: 20 UAH (2.52 USD) per person. Route: Monument of King Danylo, Bernardine monastery, Hlynyanska Tower, City Arsenal, Powder Tower, Assumption Church, the Dominican church, “House of seasons”, Armenian Church, Rynok Square, Latin Cathedral, Boim Chapel, Svobody Avenue, the monument of Adam Mickevych, the monument of Taras Shevchenko, Opera House. Cost includes sightseeing tours. Advanced tickets are paid at the Armenian Cathedral Latin Cathedral and Boim Chapel. Tour “Lviv necropolis" Duration: 2 hrs. Promotional days: Friday, December 17 and Saturday, December 18. Cost: 15 UAH (1.98 USD) per person. During the tour, you can visit the Cemetery and see its most famous burial. Cost includes sightseeing tours. Advanced tickets are paid to the Cemetery. Tour "Golden Horseshoe" Duration: 8 hours (10:00-18:00). Promotion day: Sunday, December 19. Cost: 75 UAH (9.43 USD) per person.  During the tour you can see the three best castles of Ukraine: Oleskyy, Pidgoretskyy, Zolochevskyy. Price includes: transportation by comfortable bus, escort tour-guide, excursions to museums. Additional costs: entrance tickets to museums and meals.  Other: Each participant will receive a tour map of the "Tourist Region" of the 200 natural and historic attractions of the region.
 10. INLVIV Contact: Lviv, Brothers Rohatyntsiv st 30 apt 1,
tel. / fax: 38 (032) 235763
contact@inlviv.com; www.inlviv.info
tours: city tours Ukrainian (50 UAH/hour) (6.29 USD/hour)
German (100UAH/hour) (12.58 USD/hour)
Russian (50UAH/hour) (6.29 USD/hour) languages by prior booking.
Accommodation: rent (the second day at full cost)
Other: transfers from airport / train station (45/55 UAH,(5.66/6.92 USD) depending on time)

Прослухати
Читати фонетично
Прослухати
Читати фонетично
11.TourdeLviv
Contact: Office 805, 63 Chornovola ave. (Prospect), Lviv
tel. +38(032) 242-4303, 0979534502, fax (032) 244-5444
mariya_tourdelviv@ua.fm, www.tourdelviv.lviv.ua
The tourist route: Opera House – the Shevchenko Statue –Jesuit Church - the ruins of the hospital of the Holy spirit – the Horseshoe statue – the Entrance to the Old City: Rynok Square – the Latin Cathedral (discovering from the inside) – The Chapel of the Boim Family - coming
