---
title: "Yellowstone"
type: location
---

Yellowstone became the first national park in the world in 1872. There is so much beauty to be found in Yellowstone, many different kinds and types of landscapes. Yellowstone is very large, you can spend a lifetime trying to conquer everything Yellowstone has to offer and still not see everything. The majority of the people who visit Yellowstone stop in to see the Old Faithful Geyser, The Grand Canyon of Yellowstone, and hike the short 1 mile trail at the paint pots. There is so much to see and most people don't have the time to see all the attractions. Since I was a child I have been to Yellowstone 5 times that I can remember, my last trip was in August of this year and the year before, the past few times I have left Yellowstone I felt empty inside, I just miss it so much, Thinking of the site and trails that I didn't get to see and do. There is so much wildlife to see in the park, the Bison grazing in the fields, the moose wading in the marshes eating the lush greens, The herds of Elk and deer in the hundreds, the coyotes scaveging the roadsides, and the occasional bear and bighorn sightings and so much more. I been on a few of the trails in Yellowstone, Mount wasburn trail a nice steady steep grade a nice hike, Cascade Lake trail, From Lower falls there is a trail I cannot think of what the trails name is that leads you to Crystal Falls, a short little hike. My personal favorite of popular sites is the Grand Canyon of Yellowstone, but there is so much more to be seen when you get off the beatin path.
