---
title: "Tours and Excursions"
type: section
email: "tours@euroadventures.net"
phone: "+34 986 22 13 99"
url: "www.euroadventures.net"
---

A good combination of a bay "with which, in many respects, none other in the world can compare" (G. Borrow) and maritime industrial infrastructure (shipyards, canneries, fishing port, etc.) explains the rapid growth of this city since the end of the 19th Century. Today it is the most populous city of Galicia. It has splendid parks, museums, a zoo and beaches. It still has the small old sailing quarter of O Berbés. Castrelos Park, surely the most beautiful municipal park in all Galicia, is home the Quiñones de León Manor Museum, now the city museum. The city of Vigo began its modern development from the last decades of the 19th-cent. onwards. However, this has not prevented it from being a historic, monumental city. The Celtic castro which was the city's origin, Galicia's largest Roman necropolis, the Romanesque temples, O Castro's mediaeval fortress.... and Martín Codax's poetic testimony give good evidence of our affirmation. The council of Vigo, with almost 300000 inhabitants, and being the most populated city of Galicia, is placed on one of the most beautiful landscapes in the peninsula, dominating the estuary which has the same name. Vigo and the sea are inseparable. In the 16th century its port, called Berbés, was a point of important international trade. The raids of Drake, which affected the city, also gave rise to many other struggles, whose turning-point came with the Battle of Rande and the sinking of the Galleons of the Indies. Later episodes of war marked the life of Vigo during the War of Independence. In the 19th century, the city was a provincial capital for some time. More importantly, its industrial and commercial achievements have made it a pillar of the Galician economy. The Neo-classical Collegiate of Santa María and the urban centre with its harmonious combination of quiet streets and broad avenues, all deserve a mention. Another suggested visit is the Quiñones de León Museum, which holds some important collections, mainly of paintings. Not to be forgotten are the splendid views over the ria and the nearby Cíes Islands, that can be seen from O Castro, the A Guía and the A Madroa.

### [Ribeira Sacra river valley and Ribeiro wine country (Full Day Private Tour)

Galicia is not only blessed by 1,300 kms of magnificent coastline, but also with thousands of flowing rivers inland, some of which are excellent options for a fluvial holiday instead of on the coast. On this day excursion we will take you to one of the most picturesque River gorges, actually there are two gorges, the River Sil, which meets with the powerful river Miño. The area is know as the Ribeira Sacra (Sacred River Bank) named this because of the numerous amount of Monasteries that sting along the banks of the river gorge. A wise note to remember is when you find a large concentration of monasteries in such short distances of each other, that mean there is likely to be found excellent wines, that is the case with this area, it is another Denomination of Origin in Galicia, the D.O. Ribeira Sacra. The most popular type of wine made in this region is a red wine made from the Mencia grape variety. Production of this wine is very limited, but very high quality. This is due to the situation of the plantations which spread over the steep river banks. We will make a visit to a winery in the area with a privileged situation high at top the banks of the River Miño. For groups six or more we will dine in the dining room of the winery, for couples we will have lunch in a quaint Manor house near by. Apart from this we will visit another wine region of Galicia called D.O. Ribeiro. Here we will visit capital city of the province of Ourense with an important Pilgrimage Cathedral, Old quarter and Roman bridge. Ending our day we will we will visit Ribadavia's old Jewish quarter which once had an important Jewish population and is part of the Sephardic route in Spain, like other cities: Toledo, Caceres, Cordoba....This village is also the heart of Ribeiro wine country, a wine made with a blend of different white grape varieties like Caiño, Treixadura, etc.. We will make our last wine stop in a small tavern before ending our wine journey. more..](/europe/spain/galicia/vigo/tours_and_excursio/ribeira_sacra_rive)
