---
title: "Eluru"
type: location
---

**ELURU** 

**LOCATION OF THE TOWN**:- 

Eluru is located on 16°– 40' north latitude and 81°– 051 Eastern longitude on the globe. It is situated on alluvial terrain in between the Krishna and Godavari deltas. The town is at a distance of 40 miles North East of Vijayawada. The broad – gauge railway line on the East Cost connecting Chennai to Colcatta passes through the town. Two main canals from both Krishna and Godavari rivers meet at Eluru. And thus connect Chennai to the island town of the state Kakinada by inland waterways.**HISTORY OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE**: 

As the town of Eluru was built up very near to the ancient capital of Vengi it has got many historical monuments in and around it. Muslims who brought stones from the temples at Vengi built the Fort of Eluru. There are 25 inscriptions to be seen on one stone near the mosque. The places of historical importance around Eluru are Vengi, Vatluru, Denduluru and Kolleru. 

**TOPOGRAPHICAL FEATURES**: 

The town is situated on the border of the Kolleru Lake. The Tammileru river passes through the town. The Eastern part of Tammileru boarders the entire North of the town, while the Western Tammileru flows to the West of the town. The Krishna – Eluru canal passes through the heart of the town from South – West towards North – East. Close on the same direction the Madras – Waltair broad – gauge line of the South Central Railway runs almost parallel to it in the town. The GNT road passes through this town cutting the canal and the railroad twice in the town. 



**CLIMATE AND RAIN FALL**: Eluru town falls in the hot humid region of the country and it is less than 40 miles from Bay of Bengal. The climate of the town is very hot and it is pleasant during the winter. The hottest day falls in the month of May with some shift to June during some years. The maximum temperature observed is 46.70c and the minimum temperature observed is 12.90c. 



**DEMOGRAPHY**: The population of the town increased from 33,521 in 1901 to 2,12,866 in 1991 registering a growth of 55% during the period from 1901 – 1991. The literacy rate of the town has been 72% as per 1991 census. The town recorded a growth rate of 26.63% during 1981 –91. In 2001 the population increased slightly to 2,15,642 

.           **PROFILE OF ELURU TOWN**

      **ANCIENT History** HELAPURI (ELURU) WAS A PART OF THE BUDDHIST KINGDOM CALLED VENGI FROM THE ANCIENT TIMES. THE EASTERN CHALAKYAS RULED THE COASTAL ANDHRA FROM 700AD-1200AD WITH VENGI AS THEIR CAPITAL .THEN ELURU ( HELAPURI) WAS A PROVINCE OF CHALAKYA EMPIRE. IT REMAINED A PART OF KALINGA EMPIRE TILL THE INVASION OF THE MUSLIMS IN 1471.LATER IT FELL IN THE HANDS OF THE GAJAPATHIS AND CAME UNDER THEIR RULE. IN 1515 SRIKRISHNADEVARAYA CAPTURED IT FROM THE GAJAPATHIS. IT WAS AGAIN CAPTURED BY KUTUB SHAH, THE NAWAB OF GOLKONDA MANY HISTORICAL EVIDENCES ARE AVAILABLE TO THIS EFFECT AT THE NEAR BY VILLAGES PEDAVEGI AND GUNTUPALLI (zeelakarragudem).      ** West Godavari District** During the division of Northern Cirkars in to Districts, ELURU was made a part of Machilipatnam District. Later, it was included in the Godavari District in 1859. Subsequently, Eluru made part of the Krishna District. Finally in the year 1925, West Godavari District was formed with Eluru as its Headquarters and all the District Offices and Regional Offices were setup in Eluru Town.       **Eluru Municipality** Eluru was declared as Municipality in the year 1866 in terms of Madras Municipality Act. Now it enjoys the state of Selection Grade Municipality.       ** Topography** The Thammileru splits into two branches and flows through two sides of Eluru. The Krishna Canal throughs through the heart of the Town. The Calcutta – Chennai Highway No.5 and the Visakhapatnam – Chennai Railway Lines runs through the centre of the Town.       ** surroundings by Eluru** Some 30 villages and its hamlets are dependent on Eluru Town for their Education and Commercial activities. According to latest census there are 46 mandals in west godavari district.      ** Towns connected to Eluru** The upland areas of West Godavari District like Jangareddigudem, Chintalapudi, etc., are now harnessing the ground water and financially became sound, due to the cultivation of rich commercial crops like Tobacco, Palm-Oil, Cocoa etc., Eluru is the major Commercial Centre for all these areas.       ** AGRICULTURAL** **Industry** The West Godavari District is the Rice-bowl of Andhra Pradesh and Eluru is its Headquarters. The areas around Eluru are rich fertile lands and yields 3 crops a year. Major crop is Paddy. The surplus Paddy / Rice is being exported to so many States of the Country and to foreign countries also. There is a big Marketing Yard where all these activities are carried out.      ** KOLLERU LAKE** KOLLERU LAKE IS THE LARGEST FRESH WATER LAKE IN THE COUNTRY SPREAD OVER WEST GODAVARI AND KRISHNA DISTRICTS OF ANDHRA PRADESH. IT HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS "PEERLESS FISHERMAN'S PARADISE AND BIRD HEAVEN". IT IS 15 KMs. BY ROAD FROM ELURU (HELAPURI)

 KOLLERU LAKE IS A SHALLOW FRESH WATER BODY WITH A NORMAL WATER SPREAD OF 674 Sq.KMs. WHICH EXPANDS UPTO 954 Sq.KMs. AT HIGHEST FLOOD LEVEL. THE DEPTH OF THE WATER IN THE LAKE VARIES FROM 1.6 Mts. TO 4.0 Mts. THE LAKE RECEIVES WATER FROM BUDAMERU, RAMILERU, TAMMILERU, YERRA KALVA ETC.,  LAKHS OF WATER-FOWL VISIT THE LAKE EVERY YEAR OUT OF WHICH TEALS AND PINTAILS ARE THE MAIN SPECIES. PAINTED STORKS, OPEN BILL STORKS, GREY HERONS, CORMORANTS, WHITE IBISES, GLOSSY IBESIS, EGRETS, REEF HERONS, DUCKS, COOTS, SHOVELLERS, TEMS, JACANAS, MOORHENS ETC., ARE SOME OF THE OTHER BIRDS.  THE MOST FAMOUS BIRD OF THE LAKE WAS THE GREY PELICAN. THE KOLLERU LAKE IS FAMOUS FOR THE LARGE NUMBER OF MIGRATORY BIRDS THAT VISIT THE LAKE DURING WINTER. THE BEST SEASON FOR VISITING THE LAKE IS FROM NOVEMBER TO MARCH.

     **INDUSTRIES** **Ambica Group of Industries** The Corporate Office of the Ambica Group of Industries is at Eluru. This group manufacturing Ambica Agarbathi, Cosmetics, and other aromatic products, to all the places in the Country and different foreign countries also. This group recently entered into the Hotel Industry, Wind Energy and Software development programmes. Directly or indirectly some 5,000 people are dependent on this Group.  **JUTE INDUSTRY **M/s East India Commercial Corporation’s Jute Industry is one of the major Industry in Eluru Town. This Industry importing raw jute from various States and manufacturing so many Jute products and they are exporting the same to different States. Nearly 10,000 people are dependent on this Industry.

GUPTA GROUP This Group is mainly export oriented Industry. They are exporting human hair, cattle horn-tips, Carpets to different countries. So many people are dependent on this Industry. they also giving awards to the people of various fields under the name of "gupta foundation awards"      TOURISM INDUSTRY Government of Andhra Pradesh, is very much interested to develop Kolleru Lake as a major Tourism Centre in Andhra Pradesh. In this direction, so many development activities are going to be started in and around Kolleru Lake.       ** PILGRIM CENTRE** Dwaraka Tirumala (Chinna Tirupathi) which is nearer to Eluru Town. It is a very important pilgrim centre. Everyday, thousands of pilgrims from various places of the State and other States are visiting Lord Venkateswara at Chinna Tirupathi. Eluru is the nearby Railway Station and access point.       COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES There are so many big business establishments existed in ELURU. People from various places every day visit ELURU for their routine requirements like grossaries, cloth, etc., The people of nearby Towns depends upon ELURU for their purchase of Cloth, Gold, Silver for special occasions like Marriages, Festivals.

In addition to the above Educational Institutions, there are so many Residential Junior Colleges, High Schools, Technical Institutes under private sector, are present in Eluru and thousands of pupil from various places of the District and State are studying in these Institutions every year and spending huge amounts for their stay and study. 

     HOSPITALS The District Headquarters Hospital is centrally located in Eluru with a capacity of 350 beds and people from all corners of the District used to visit the Hospital for medical treatments.  In the last few years, so many Corporate Hospitals were established in Eluru Town with latest equipment and offering Multi Specialties. Due to this development, people usually goes to Metropolitan cities are getting Medical Services in Eluru itself.  ASRAM (MEDICAL COLLEGE)  · The Alluru Seetharama Raju Medical Trust is going to establish a full-pledged Medical College and Hospital in Eluru Town. All the infrastructure was completed and it will be start during the Academic year. It is a major attraction to Eluru Town.

*Change history*
Orginal article by [internetplanet](/member/internetplanet) on 27 August 04

Minor corrections by [internetplanet](/member/internetplanet) on 28 August 04

-->
