---
title: "Caxias do Sul"
type: location
latitude: -29.168505
longitude: -51.179639
---

The history of Caxias of the South, starts before the Italians, still when the region was covered for tropeiros and busy for indians, call "Field of the Bugres". The occupation for Italian immigrants, in its majority camponeses of the region of the Vêneto (Italy), was given from 1875, being situated in New Milano. These in turn, searched a place better to live, however, had found lombrados, trentinos and others. Although they had profit aid of the government, tools, feeding and seeds, this exactly aid had that to be reimbursed to the public coffers. Two years after, the headquarters of the colony of the Field of the Bugres received the denomination from Colony of Caxias. In day 20 of June of 1890 then the City was created, and the 24 of August of the same year, were accomplished its installation. Some economic cycles had marked the evolution of the City to the long one of this century. The first one of them is on to the trace strongest of its identity: The Culture of the Grapevine and the Production of Wine. At a first moment, for proper consumption, and more ahead for commercialization. In the day 1º of June of 1910, Caxias was raised the category of city and, in this exactly day arrived the first train, binding the region to the Capital of the State. The Immigrants were agriculturists however, many of them possuíam other professions. They had been installed in the region, urbanizando it and giving beginning to one sped up industrial process. In the agricultural zone it is installed subsistence agriculture that if concentrates in the production of grape, wheat and maize, starting industrialization in domestic level. All the exceeding one was commercialized. In the beginning, the grape and the wheat. With running of the time, the diversification of the industry caretaker for, together with the human process of the colony, the manufactured magnifying of the fan of. Of the small workshops caretakers, the great industries today, internationally known. In 1976, the University of Caxias of the South is created, nucleus of the systemize culture. Caxias of the South is today, the polar region centraliser of the diversified region more of Brazil, with its laborious colonists, its vast parreirais, its vinícolas, its varied industrial park and a rich and dynamic commerce; giving to this land a still bigger dimension, reason this that "Caxias of the South", the "Capital of the Mountain", the "Pearl of the Colonies", the "Beehive of the Work" is, by itself, the polar region centraliser of the Italian mark in the south of Brazil. Together with the immigrants, other etnias partilharam of this way. The miscegenation and the aculturação had happened. Cantos and language, habits and traditions if had approached. To the side of the italic cultural ballast, it coexists the beautiful tradition gaucho. The barbecue and the wine, the polenta, galeto, the macarronadas ones, to the sound of beautiful letters brought of longínqua Italy and of produced others already in the land of give to shades, sound equipment and flavors special to the typical culinária of this Metropolis here. It is the abundance of the allied South to the special flavor of it I temper Italian. It is, through the Grape and of the Wine, that Caxias if notabilizou, being the cradle of the tourism of the State when, in 1931, it launched the biggest party of the south: the Party of the Grape Wines, grapes, cold and snow, allies to the European climate of these mountains, with much pretty people, satiated food, hospitality and many attractive ones reiterate the invitation: It comes and it proves. It takes with us a gostoso wine and if it delights with the most flavorful grapes.

**Contributors**
December 14, 2005
