---
title: "History Of Baku"
type: location
---

City Of Winds: Baku  Azerbaijan's capital was founded 1,500 years ago. There are a few theories about the origin of the name, the most widely known being that Baku comes from bad kube, meaning "city of winds".  

  Sprung on the coasts of the silvery Khazar (the Caspian), Baku as one of the holy centers of Zoroastrianism, after the discovery of oil, within a very short historical period changed into a very important commercial city. Its advantageous geographical location and abundance of valuable raw materials as oil, salt, maroon, saffron and others helped its rapid growth. With the development of feudalism a lot of small feuds appeared in the territories near Baku. There were built small but strong family towers - donjons in the center of their lands and they formed together a single system of warning in the case of dangers. Baku still remained as the biggest populated locality on the entire western coast of the Caspian Sea.  The earliest description of Baku of that period was made by the native geographer of the Middle Ages Abd or-Rashid al-Bakuvi. In his work written 1403 named "Kitabi Talhis as-Asor, Va'aja'ib al-malik alkahhar" he writes: ".. the city has two extraordinarily fortified strong stone castles. One of them, the biggest, is near the sea, and the waves waste its walls. This is the castle, which the Tartars (Mongols) could not capture. The other castle is higher than the first one. Its top is destroyed by balusters. A special feature of this city is the constant wind which is blowing day and night. Sometimes it is so strong that it is impossible for a man to go against the wind, horses and sheep in winter are often swept into the sea because they can not hold themselves on land. Here are deposits of tar and oil, oil is extracted daily for more than two hundred camel pack-loads. Near them, there is another oil spring, which is ceaselessly pouring out oil day and night, this oil is as white as jasmine oil, its rental estimates thousand dirharns. Near the oil-wells there is hard soil of yellow color, which burns like a candle. People break off pieces of it and take it
