---
title: "Alassio"
type: location
---

Its origins are obscure. According to some it was founded by the inhabitants of the surrounding heights, who came down to the coast in the tenth century to devote themselves to seafaring activities. For others, the first nucleus was created by Benedictines from the island of Gallinara. They did in fact have a fief here up until the twelfth century, when the territory was sold to the Commune of Albenga, from which it did not gain its freedom until the sixteenth century. It was at this time that that the city walls, traces of which are still standing, and the imposing tower by the sea were built. The most interesting of the religious buildings is the parish church of Sant'Ambrogio: although its tall campanile with a spire dates from the eleventh century, the church was rebuilt several times during the Renaissance and modern era. The Palazzo Scofferi dates from the seventeenth-eighteenth century, as does the Palazzo Ferrero de Gubernatis, restored in the nineteenth century. The energies that Alassio has devoted to the improvement and renovation of its tourist and bathing facilities has made it a seaside resort of international repute, where vacationers congregate not only on the beach but also at two other famous focal points: “Il Budello,” the narrow alley running parallel to the promenade and lined with stores, and the “muretto” of the public gardens, a wall with hundreds of ceramic tiles bearing the signatures of the many celebrities who have stayed in Alassio, commencing with Hemingway and Chaplin. The tourist harbor, with two wharves and five piers, can accommodate around 400 boats.
