---
title: "The State Tretyakov Gallery"
type: poi
address: "Lavrushinsky Per. 12, Metro stations: 'Treryakovskaya' or 'Polyanka'"
phone: "230-7788, 231-1362"
---

The State Tretyakov Gallery is the biggest art museum in Russia housing the largest collection of the Russian art. The Gallery was founded by P.M. Tretyakov (1832-1898), a Moscow merchant, who dreamed of a museum accessible for any visitor, with fine collection of objects, which would describe the whole history of the Russian art. On display here are the specimens of early Russian art of the 9th to 17th centuries, including the icons of the 12th to 17th centuries from Kiev, Novgorod, Central Russia painted by Andrei Rublev, Simon Ushakov, Dionysius; pictures; drawings and sculptures of the 18th to 19th centuries (F.S. Rokotov, F.I. Shubin, O.A. Kiprensky, I.I. Shishkin, I.E. Repin, I.I. Levitan, K.A. Korovin, etc.) and the works of painters from "The World of Art" association (A.N. Benua, K.A. Somov), "The Blue Rose" association (M. Saryan, V. Borisov-Musatov), "The Knave of Diamonds" association (P.P. Konchalovsky, I.I. Mashkov); the works of the representatives of the Russian avant-garde (V.V. Kandinsky, K.S. Malevich, M. Shagal and many others). Opening Hours: from 10.00 to 19.30, except Mondays.

  An interesting exposition of the Russian avant-garde of the 20-ies (V. Kandinsky, K.S. Malevich, M. Shagal, etc.) is open in the Exhibition Hall of Tretyakov Gallery at Krymski Val street, 10 (Tel.: 230-7788, 238-1738, open from 10.00 to 19.30, except Mondays). The Soviet art of the 30-ies of the 20th century is also displayed here, as well as many other exhibitions. On the whole, up to 20 exhibitions are held here in the Exhibition Hall annually. In the near future the following exhibitions will be open: "Russian Marine Art" (September-November, 1996); "The World of Jews (December, 1996 - February, 1997). Each exhibition will display up to 500 objects from many Russian and foreign museums.

  The affiliates of the Tretyakov Gallery are: The House-Museum of V.M. Vasnetsov - a "fairy tale" wooden house built in a traditional Russian style (Per. Vasnetsova St., 13, the "Sukharevskaya", the "Tsvetnoi Bulvar" or the "Prospekt Mira" Metro stations, tel.: 281-1329, open from 11.00 to 17.00, except Mondays, Tuesdays and every last Thursday); The Apartment-Museum of A.M. Vasnetsov (Furmanny per. St., 6. the "Krasnye Vorota" Metro station, tel.: 208-9045, open from 14.00 to 20.00 on Wednesday and Friday; from 11.00 to 17.00 on Thursday, Saturday, Sunday); The Museum-Studio of A.S. Golubkina (B. Levshinsky per., 12, The "Gorky Park" Metro station; the "Smolenskaya" Metro station, tel.: 201-5682); The House-Museum of P.D. Korin (M. Pirogovskaya St., 16, the "Sportivnaya" Metro station, tel.: 245-1190, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, from 11.00 to 17.00), where not only the works of the painter, but the icons of his rich collection are on display.
