---
title: "Berlin courtyards and the »city of stone« (ca. 7,3 km)"
type: location
---

In and around the Hackesche Höfe: Route 2 begins at Hackescher Markt, Berlin's bustling new pleasure centre, taking us through the oldest surviving residential area and centre of craft enterprises and into the heart of the densely built-up 19th century »city of stone«. 

 Spandauer Vorstadt in the north of the vast S-Bahn (city railway) network is bordered by Friedrichstrasse in the west, Torstrasse in the north and Prenzlauer Allee in the east. Its name is a geographical reference to the town of Spandau to the west of Berlin. Most of the old street network has been preserved in its original form, as one of the surviving testimonies to the historical city centre of Berlin dating from the 17th century. Consequently, in 1993, Spandauer Vorstadt was officially declared a development area worthy of preservation. 

 In contrast to the once splendid area in the south between the S-Bahn and Alexanderplatz, Spandauer Vorstadt and the Sophienviertel, in particular, were always conspicuously poor areas. This was the home of small craftsmen and workers employed in the wool and silk industries as well as, from 1671 on, the so-called Schutzjuden (Jews granted protection by the Prussian ruler). Auguststrasse was popularly known as the »Armengasse« (Poor Lane), whilst Grosse Hamburger Strasse was called »Toleranzstrasse« (Tolerance Street) because of the diverse religions which coexisted peacefully there. The former Jewish Cemetery, the Protestant Church of Sophia and the Catholic hospital of St. Hedwig as well as the former »Volkskaffeehaus« (People's Coffee House) and the older residential houses still suggest something of the atmosphere once prevailing in this district. The former Wertheim Department Store and the mail transport office building in Oranienburger Strasse, in contrast, testify to Berlin's evolution into a 20th-century city. 

 Route 2 takes us through countless inner-courtyards containing many new buildings and conversions. Trade, culture and dwellings form an urbane unity here. Many of the courtyards are extremely well executed instances of the revival of what is now frequently regarded as a prime example of urban mixed-use of the past. The noisy small and large machines of old have meanwhile given way to environmentally compatible handicraft and cultural enterprises. Galleries have been set up in the floors that used to accommodate wareho, uses and production halls. The Hackesche Höfe and Sophie Gips Höfe are merely the best-known and most splendid among the numerous courtyards that will be traversed on route 2. A glance at the stairwells and court facades is certainly worthwhile, since it gives one an opportunity to see the exemplary results achieved through the cooperation between Berlin preservationists and investors. 

 The urban character of this dist, rict has also been shaped by the recent alternative culture, which was beginning to create its own scene even before the Wall was opened up: in empty and derelict old houses such as the Kunsthaus Tacheles in Oranienburger Strasse and the  Hackesche Höfe. Furthermore, Jewish life, which has traditionally been an essential part of the district, has also undergone a mild renaissance around the New Synagogue and the Centrum Judaicum with cafés, restaurants, shops and museums. However, the continuing trend towards ever more pubs and restaurants is a challenge to urban planners to ensure that the district is not paralysed by monoculture. Now in the process of a social transformation, Spandauer Vorstadt as a whole provides an example of gentrification. The ennoblement of both properties and their use is putting pressure on indigenous social classes and tending to force them out of the area. 

 Route 2 leaves Spandauer Vorstadt at Oranienburger Tor and traverses an old quarter that playe, d a significant role in the industrial history of the city. Chausseestrasse was the cradle of the mechanical-engineering industry (Egells and Borsig) in Berlin. The route takes us on to the Berlin Wall Memorial Site at Bernauer Strasse and continues along Anklamer Strasse, Brunnenstrasse and Ackerstrasse, which are among the longest and oldest streets in Berlin. These streets once went beyond the city limits. The route comes to an end in the middle of the 19th century »city of stone« at Rosenthaler Platz.
