---
title: "Berlin Mitte - the new centre (ca. 7,3 km)"
type: location
---

From Pariser Platz to Friedrichstrasse: Route 5 traverses the area where the »New Berlin« is taking shape. From Potsdamer and Leipziger Platz to Pariser Platz, it takes us along that magnificent, wide boulevard Unter den Linden and then up and down Friedrichstrasse as far as Schlossplatz and the Lustgarten. In the process, we shall encounter the new centres of political power and the culture of the past, Berlin's splendid new shopping street as well as centres of science and religion. The route provides an excellent panorama of all that has been planned, excavated and realised in Berlin's inner-city over the past ten years.

 Route 5 closely passes behind the former centre of political power in Wilhelmstrasse. This area used to be closed to the city's inhabitants. Today, with its scattered villas housing the diplomatic representations of the German Laender, the area is accessible to the public for the first time thanks to public rights of way. Just before we reach Pariser Platz, route 5 takes us to the site of the planned »Monument for the Murdered European Jews«, which has been the subject of impassioned public debate for more than ten years.

  At Pariser Platz we encounter a notable feature in the architectural renewal of Berlin. The quadrangular square forms a brilliantly executed Baroque figure and was, for a long time, the bourgeois counterweight to the royal Prussian palace in the centre of the city. Following the war and the construction of the Wall it remained a barren area, where the Brandenburg Gate came to symbolise the fate of Berlin, a city caught between division and unification. There was a heated debate over the redevelopment of Pariser Platz with palatial buildings in modern architectural style. It was supposed to do justice to the image of a fashionable »salon of Berlin«. 

 Route 5 follows Unter den Linden up to the intersection of Friedrichstrasse, providing a glimpse of its growing use again by shops and businesses, cafés and the media. At Friedrichstrasse, our journey takes us north towards Friedrichstrasse railway station, which gained notoriety as a border-crossing between East and West Berlin. It also conjures up memories of the legendary 1920s, when the immediate surroundings were filled with the hustle and bustle of urban life, with brothels and musical theatres, business and entertainment. 

 From here it is but a stone's throw to the Museum Island, which is listed as one of UNESCO's world cultural heritage sites. With its ensemble of diverse, important museums, the island testifies to the incredible cultural potential of the city. Following a long period of lethargy, it will now be given a new lease of life when the extensive reconstruction work has been completed.

  At the Museum Island, and on the rest of the Spree Island, route 5 also traces Berlin's more recent political past. Schlossplatz is not only one of the oldest and politically most important places in the city, but also one of the most controversial anywhere in Germany. The Palast der Republik (Palace of the Republic) was erected here by the East German state in place of the old Stadtschloss (City Palace), which was demolished in 1950 to create the political centre of Socialism that included the State Council Building and the Marx Engels Forum. The current debate indecisively drifts back and forth between demolishing the Palast der Republik and reconstructing the original building, or completely redesigning the area. The old Lustgarten, which is being redesigned in the forms of the late 19th century, has set a signal. And within view, the Foreign Ministry of a united Germany has established its residence at the Werderscher Markt in the extension to the former Reichsbank dating from the Nazi period.

 From there, route 5 takes us on to the Gendarmenmarkt, via the former Berlin fashion centre and Hausvogteiplatz, which is now becoming a centre for television stations. Being the site of the Französicher and Deutscher Dom (French and German Cathedrals) and Schinkel's Konzerthaus, it is one of the most beautiful squares in the entire city. Route 5 then takes us to the Forum Fridericianum, just behind the square. The Forum is probably the most important urban development executed under Friedrich II.

  Route 5 ends at the section of Friedrichstrasse between Unter den Linden and Leipziger Strasse. Here we arrive at the centre of what was referred to as the »new age of empire builders« in the early 1990s. With its new offices and commercial buildings, whose development has been closely followed and discussed internationally, the legend of the lively, diversified commercial street is being brought back to life. 

-->
