---
title: "Between myth and future (ca. 6,6 km)"
type: location
---

Potsdamer Platz and the surrounding area: Route 3 takes in three phases of the more recent history of urban design and development in Berlin. It b, egins at the principal event of the nineties in Berlin, the development of Potsdamer Platz following the opening of the Berlin Wall. From there, it goes back in time to the Cultural Forum, which documents the urban design ideals of the '50s and '60s, namely the idea of an open-plan city, the »urban landscape«. Following this excursion into the past, it once again touches on the '90s in the vicinity of Potsdamer Platz and then moves on to the attempts of the IBA 87, the International Building Exhibition held in Berlin in 1987, to reintroduce architecture to the principles of planning adopted in block developments. The route ends at Mehringplatz in the municipal district of Kreuzberg; this square is an excellent example of the way in which inspired Baroque architecture was replaced by crude and massive structures.

 The controversy in 1991 surrounding the development of Potsdamer Platz marked the beginning of the reconstruction of the centre of Berlin. Under discussion were all fundamental parameters of significance in the urban development project of the century with which Berlin has been faced over the last ten years. One of the most controversial issues was the question as to whether the city of Berlin would succeed in asserting public interests against the interests of the investors. Consideration had to be given to matters of road planning such as a north-south tunnel under the Tiergarten park as well as to reducing the ratio of private cars to local public transport to 20:80 per cent in the entire city centre for ecological reasons. Potsdamer Platz was also to be made easily accessible by rail. Another point of dispute was whether Berlin was to have a new high-rise district here, which would be a counterpart to Alexanderplatz, which is the eastern boundary of the city centre, or whether it might be possible to set history aside and make a new start with radically avant-garde visions. The development at Potsdamer Platz is a compromise between these differing proposals. The homogenous development of buildings with glass facades at the Sony site is reminiscent of an »American« plaza. In contrast, the streets and buildings around the public square named after Marlene Dietrich are in keeping with the traditional conception of a »European« city. The Potsdamer Platz Arcades are a compromise between a public street and a shopping mall. And Potsdamer Platz itself is to become the focal point of the new high-rises. 

 The Cultural Forum is in sharp contrast. Its design reflects the efforts of the post-war generation in the '50s and '60s to replace the historical city of the 19th century, where very different forms of use were in close proximity to each other, by spatially separate »function bands« for living, working, shopping, politics and culture and to create function centres to form a new »urban landscape«. The Cultural Forum in Berlin documents this approach to modern urban design, which was echoed nationally and internationally, and includes such outstanding examples of architecture as the Philharmonie, the New National Gallery and the new Picture Gallery, which was completed in 1998.

  The route includes cultural and historical monuments located to the east of Stresemannstraße. The Foundation Topography of Terror and the German Museum of Technology are, in addition to the German Museum of History and the Museum of Post and Kommunications, the most important new museum buildings in the city. This is where the route encounters the architecture and urban designs of the IBA Berlin 87, which were intended to start a process of urban revitalisation in an area which had suffered neglect and decline due to its proximity to the Wall. Mehringplatz is a prime example of architecture and urban design which is largely discredited today. 30 years ago the circular, Baroque plaza was built up in order to cut the residential buildings and the square off from a motorway which was planned parallel to the Landwehr Canal.
