---
title: "From the »Octagon« to the »Rondelle« (ca. 5 km)"
type: location
---

From Leipziger Platz to Hallesches Tor: Route 4 covers the part of Berlin that used to be the old town of Friedrichstadt, which was created during a period of Baroque-style urban expansion during the 17th century under the Elector Friedrich III, who gave his name to the town. The area is bounded by the ingenious application of three ideas of the time on spatial division - the square, in the shape of Pariser Platz, the octagon, formed by Leipziger Platz, and the circle, at Mehringplatz (formerly Belle-Alliance-Platz) - which arose when the city was extended in 1732. Leipziger Platz is being recreated in its old form as a junction interface in the New Berlin where the octogon will once again be an elegant and distinguished gate and city square, complete with commercial buildings and the Canadian Embassy. The development at Mehringplatz, on the other hand, from the 1960s and 70s reflects the suspension of urban through traffic. The city traffic flow within Friedrichstadt towards the southern city districts of Schöneberg and Kreuzberg is now interrupted by contemporary urban development.

  Route 4 begins by following Leipziger Strasse, which, prior to the Second World War, formed the industrious, well-to-do middle class backbone of Berlin's inner city area. It was a main artery for inner city life, pulsating with the flow of people from the railway station at Potsdamer Platz, in its day the busiest station in Berlin. Here could be found both the first and largest departments stores of their time as well as innumerable small shops and stores. In contrast to Unter den Linden - the prestigious boulevard running parallel to the north, divided between r, oyal residences and civic buildings - the line of Leipziger Strasse between the octagon and Spittelmarkt was a centre for middle-class business life.

  At Mauerstrasse, route 4 passes traces of the old Baroque city boundary from 1688. Mauerstrasse runs diagonally across the geometrical pattern of Friedrichstadt. In recent history - here, on the Baroque city boundary - was what used to be Checkpoint Charlie, the Allied border control point, the political frontier between the two major powers in the Cold War period. It has now been reborn as the »Checkpoint Charlie Business Centre« with offices and business premises. This is directly next to the old newspaper publishing centre of Berlin, which has regained part of its former glory through being the location of such well-known German publishers' offices as the Springer Publishing House, the Mosse Centre and the German Government Printing Office. Once you reach the eastern edge of Friedrichstadt, route 4 then follows the efforts made during the 1980s for Berlin's International Building Exhibition in 1987 (IBA 87) to reconstruct this partially destroyed historical city area. The sites had not been systematically developed after the war, and newer architectural styles were employed without attempting to recreate the shapes of the original buildings; there are examples ranging from the old streets of Alte Jakobstrasse and Feilnerstrasse, to the blooks of houses bordering the streets around the Berlin Museum, to the spectacular architecture of the new Jewish Museum, with its avant-garde style reacting to the traditional city plan.

  While on route 4, you will come across two particular locations reflecting political problems characteristic of the reunified Germany. At the very start of the route, you will cross the former »Ministergärten« (the Ministers' Gardens) and Wilhelmstrasse - both of which, up until the Second World War, were the main centres of power in the German Empire. Now, the centre of government has moved to the Spreebogen and a suitable use has been found for the »Ministergärten«, thanks to the majority of Germany's Laender representations taking offices in this part of the city; in addition, there are roads and paths allowing public access to it. A little further on is the second place worth mentioning in this context: the vast complex of buildings which today houses the Bundesministerium für Finanzen (the Federal Ministry of Finance), a complex burdened by its historical associations, since the Nazis used it to house their Reich Ministry of Aviation (Reichsluftfahrtsministerium). After reunification, Germany had to meet the challenge, through the confrontation with such buildings, of coming to terms with its own past and the role National Socialism played in it. 

-->
