---
title: "The government and parliament district. (ca. 8,4 km)"
type: location
---

In and around the government district: Route 1 follows the transformation of Berlin into the capital of the Federal Republic of Germany. It takes us through the new government and parliament district and through the three very different districts of Moabit, Tiergarten and Mitte. As we follow the tour, we pass through approximately 400 years of city history. 

 Moabit, on the northern side of the Spreebogen (a deep curve traced by the River Spree), is among the oldest districts outside the historical city. For a long time, the character of the district was shaped by the presence of the armed forces and industry. Thus, for example, up to the early 19th century, powder magazines and a hospital for plague victims were located here on the outskirts. The urban development of the adjacent residential area with its population of small and medium-sized craft enterprises made it »respectable«. It went into decline in the decades when Berlin was divided by the Wall. The prison used to be the most striking feature of Moabit. Since the mid '80s, however, it has undergone carefully planned redevelopment, with vacant and under-utilised industrial and trading sites being transformed into service and trading enterprises. Owing to the changes that have taken place, its proximity to the River Spree, the Tiergarten Park and the new Government district within the Spreebogen Moabit has been upgraded to an unforeseen extent.

  The route passes the apartments for Federal Government employees in Moabit Werder and continues to nearby Bellevue Palace, the main residence of the Federal President, and the newly constructed Federal President's Office. The route then continues along the Spree to the former Congress Hall and traverses the Tiergarten to the government and parliament district within the Spreebogen. With the »Band des Bundes« a large scale urban-development project is being completed to establish a home for both parliament and the government in Berlin. Connecting the Chancellor's Park in the west with the Federal Chancellery and the deputies' offices in the Alsen and Luise Blocks (Paul Löbe and Marie Elisabeth Lüders House) in the east, it symbolises the unity of East and West Berlin after they were divided for forty years. 

 With the construction of the government and administration buildings, the century-long history of planning and construction within the Spreebogen - from a prestigious residential quarter and forum during the Wilhelminian Empire and the Weimar Republic - has come to a happy end. For the first time in the history of German democracy, both the parliament and the government will have direct contact with one another at one place. With the conversion of the Reichstag into the new German Bundestag (the Federal Parliament), the Platz der Republik (Square of the Republic) will regain its former significance. As a result the Spreebogen has thus become the country's political centre, whilst the Soviet Monument in the centre of the capital city stands as a reminder of the history of Berlin, Germany, Europe and the world.

  The newly constructed Kronprinzen Bridge re-establishes the link between the Tiergarten and Berlin Mitte districts. The Bundes-Presseamt (Federal Press Office) and the German public television company (the ARD's capital studio) have chosen to locate themselves between parliament and Friedrichstrasse S-Bahn station. Route 1 crosses the renovated Marschall Bridge and traverses an old district with heterogeneously designed buildings dating from the early 19th century as well as streets lined by »slab buildings« from the 1970s. It continues past the Charité University Clinic, whose surrounding grounds are idyllic in places, and the renowned Deutsches Theater. At the newly designed square before the Neues Tor (New Gate), our route encounters the old northern border of Berlin's historical city centre. There it takes us into Invalidenstrasse and past the ministries of economics, building and transport which are located in old buildings and new extensions. After crossing the reconstructed Sandkrug Bridge, which served as Invalidenstrasse Checkpoint for many years, the route passes the Museum for Contemporary Art at Hamburger Bahnhof station and ends at the construction site of Lehrter Bahnhof railway station. Europe's largest interchange station for Inter-City Express routes in all directions is under construction here. The station will link the European railway network with the city railway and underground lines. In the year 2004, Berlin will have a central station for the very first time.
