---
title: "The surroundings of the Spree Island (ca. 8,6 km)"
type: location
type: "general"
---

From Alexanderplatz to Jannowitzbrigde: Route 6 takes in the medieval and Baroque old city of Berlin and Luisenstadt, which dates from the 19th century. It passes the »Rotes Rathaus«, today the seat of the government of Berlin and the Stadthaus, a prestigious building which was once the seat of the former Berlin City Parliament. The route passes the Nikolaiviertel district to come to the oldest parts of the city at Molkenmarkt and Spittelmarkt.

  Route 6 begins at Alexanderplatz. It was once a cattle market outside the gates to the old town; from the 19th century on it developed into a traffic and business centre in the eastern part of Berlin. As Berlin became industrialised, it became the lower middle-class and working class counter-balance to the prestigious and elegant middle-class west of Friedrichstadt. At the beginning of the 20th century, it became the centre of gravity of the »cosmopolitan city« described by Alfred Döblin in his novel entitled »Berlin Alexanderplatz«. As the first large square in Berlin, »Alex« was to be modernised and adapted to accommodate road traffic in 1930. Numerous public buildings were added by the GDR to make it the »social centre« of the German capital of socialism. After the Wall was opened, it once again came under the scrutiny of planners. With its large numbers of high-rises it is intended to be a counterpart to Potsdamer Platz in terms of urban vitality and dynamism.

  Route 6 passes the Television Tower, the tallest structure in Berlin, and the remains of medieval and Baroque Berlin in Klosterstrasse, the location of the impressive Podewils Palace and the Parochial Church. After passing Molkenmarkt, the route comes to the building on Mühlendamm which houses the three leading associations representing German business and industry and can be seen as the beginnings of a new administrative centre of national significance. The foundations of the old city lie beneath the multiple-lane roads Gertraudenstrasse and Mühlendamm and in the undeveloped parts of Fisher Island. The Senate's »Masterplan for the inner city« envisages reconstructing this area in terms of its urban design. It is to be rebuilt as an intricate network of roads in accordance with historical plans and the area is to be structured by numerous residential buildings. The Berlin Senate has been pursuing this urban planning goal since 1995, which is ambitious from the cultural point of view and in terms of urban development history. In particular Spittelmarkt is to regain its significance as a square which has spatial dimensions and can be used by pedestrians.

 The route once again encounters structures of the old city at Köllnischer Park and the city museum »Märkisches Museum«. However, as the sites of the embassies of Australia, Brazil and the Netherlands as well as of the Senate Department of Urban Development and the Environment are located here, the appeal of the area is gradually growing. An impression which is confirmed in Alte Jakobstrasse and Wallstrasse by the exemplary redevelopment of industrial and residential buildings dating from the turn of the century.

  Route 6 then proceeds to Luisenstadt, an extension of the city dating from the 19th century. Its development is heterogeneous and marked by the decades of the division of the city. On the one hand, the GDR housing developments of the '60s and '70s. They are now undergoing extensive renovation and new buildings are being added in the form of the Annen Courts and the Heinrich Heine Forum. On the other hand, wasteland where the Wall once separated East and West Berlin is to be replaced by a new belt of green. A striking feature is the former Luisenstädtischer Canal, which was built around 1850 to link the River Spree and the Landwehr Canal and filled in in the '20s.

 The old Luisenstadt industrial estate, which now has modern functions, is in the immediate vicinity. The breathtaking architecture of the Trias office building on the north bank of the Spree is a new addition, a former machinery factory now houses architecture offices, artists' studios and the German Architecture Centre. The new Mitte combined heat and power plant, which lies next to it, provides many parts of the inner city - including Potsdamer Platz - with energy and is the most modern inner-city combined heat and power plant in Europe.

 Route 6 ends at Jannowitzbrücke urban railway station, one of the oldest urban railway stations in Berlin. Its arches, which have been restored and now contain shops of different kinds, are a good example of the different and attractive uses to which technical structures can be put.

type: general
