---
title: "Things are changing in the east (ca. 7,3 km)"
type: location
---

From Karl-Marx-Allee to Rummelsburger Bucht: Route 9 passes through the eastern inner city districts of Friedrichshain and Kreuzberg and Treptow in the south-east of the city. It takes in traditional industrial areas of Berlin and in many places reveals the dramatic changes which the city is undergoing at the end of the industrial age. At the same time, the enormous development potential in Berlin is also apparent.

 Route 9 starts at the Weberwiese high-rise, which was built in 1951, marking the beginning of the National Reconstruction Programme in East Berlin. Stalinallee, now Karl-Marx-Allee, between Frankfurter Tor and Strausberger Platz was in sharp contrast to the Western modernist architecture of the Hansaviertel - The luxuriously fitted "residential palaces for workers" were in Soviet architectural style with ornaments and reliefs. The building site on Stalinallee was the starting point of the uprising on 17 June 1953. Today, the buildings, which recently underwent extensive restoration, are again considered to be model examples of urban residential architecture.

 Route 9 initially turns south to the Ostbahnhof railway station. The station, which was built in 1842 and known as Frankfurter Bahnhof, has been rebuilt and renamed a number of times since then. In the plans for the railway system in New Berlin it is to be the eastern terminus of the ICEs and a mainline station for routes to the east. The surrounding areas to the north and south of the railway lines are being restructured. The banks of the River Spree, which so far have been cut off from public access by industrial sites are to be opened up for public use in a number of planning stages. Riverbank paths and green areas as well as passages leading between public buildings are to provide a link between the river and the residential and business areas.

 Route 9 then passes by the East Side Gallery, which was once a section of the Berlin Wall and separated Friedrichshain from Kreuzberg until 1989. Paintings done by international artists in 1990 have made it the longest open-air gallery in the world. The paintings are comments on the division and reunification of Berlin and Germany. The adjacent Oberbaumbrücke bridge has been restored and since 1995 has again provided a link between the municipal districts on either side of the river.

 The Oberbaum-City serves as an example of the conversion of former industrial sites into service centres. Light bulbs were manufactured here from 1908 to 1992. The interiors of some of the old buildings, which have been classified as protected buildings on account of their interesting historical architecture, had to be entirely removed before they could be converted. The tower which once bore the NARVA logo and to which five stories have been added remains as a landmark. Similar measures have been planned for the old warehouse building and the egg cold-storage depot at the east docks.

 On the other side of Oberbaumbrücke bridge route 9 enters Kreuzberg, the most important exhibition area of the "socially committed" part of the 1987 International Building Exhibition in Berlin (IBA-Alt). Its aim was a model development of the legendary "SO 36" district of the squatters' movement. The IBA worked together with citizens action groups to preserve existing building structures which provided cheap residential accommodation; new buildings were built on a number of empty lots. 

 Route 9 takes in the Treptower, the highest office building in Berlin, and an example of the new strategy of developing service industry centres along he circular urban railway line Stadtbahn. Further office tower buildings and the Twin Towers are located on the site of the former electrical appliances company EAW in the vicinity of Treptower Park. The River Spree and the circular urban railway line provide easy access to the city centre. Investors on the Stralau peninsular on the north side of the Spree and the Rummelsburg bay also plan to take advantage of this newly discovered locational advantage. This will be the site of an exhibition which, as part of EXPO 2000, will show cutting-edge technologies and projects which have water as their theme. Model "waterside residential developments" are to be built here as an alternative to residential areas located on the city outskirts.

 Route 9 ends at Ostkreuz railway station. This is where two lines of the urban railway system intersect at one of the busiest rail interchanges in Berlin. The area surrounding Ostkreuz is being developed into a major new office location in the city. 

-->
