---
title: "Eddy Kuhl"
type: poi
address: "Selva Negra, Matagalpa"
email: "selvanegra@cablenet.com.ni"
phone: "(505) 772-5713"
---

In order to get to Matagalpa, either from Managua or from the International Airport you have three alternatives: 1.You can rent a car in the airport lobby taking "Carretera Norte" heading north, it takes 1.5 hours to get Matagalpa City. 2. Public Bus Ride, the other alternative is just outside the Airport to take a bus heading to Matagalpa, the bus takes 2 hours and the its ticket cost betwenn 4 or 5 dollars. 3.Hitchhiking on the highway going north to Matagalpa just outside the airport is also ok, you more likely get a free ride on the bed of an eventual good will driver of a pick up. On the way to Matagalpa you pass by the following little towns:Tipitapa, San Benito, Maderas, Calabazas, just outside Ciudad Dario, Sebaco, then in kilometer 130 you get to Matagalpa. Once in Matagalpa you can go to kilometer 140 on the Highway to Matagalpa-Jinotega to the well known Selva Negra (Black Forest) Mountain Resort, good for mountain hiking, horse backriding, food and lodging. If you keep going north 30 kilometers you get to the City of Jinotega, and 15 kiometers ahead is the City of San Rafael del Norte, here is the original house of Blanca Arauz, Gral.Sandino´s wife, which has been converted in a Musseum, visit also Tepeyac Sanctuary and the oil painting inside the local Church, across the lodal park. Farther north is the biggest Natural Forest Reseve north of the Amazons, named Bosawas. From Matagalpa you also can go to the town of San Ramon (12 kilometers) it is close to the Indian Community of El Chile, only ramainning of the Matagalpa ethnic group where you may have the chance to to observe how they do they old Indian textile(ask local residents) Matagalpa neighborhood farma are a good place to practice Eco Tourism, Agritourism, Adventure hiking, Trekking and the Tour del Cafe. For food ask for the local Nacatamal, strong black coffee, rosquillas, and Güirila or Indian Tortilla.
