# Eating Out

*Asia > Southeastasia > Myanmar > Yangon > Eating Out*

In the evening you can have a good meal on the street. The streetvendors sell anything from meat to coconut pancakes. You can have a good meal between 0,2 and 1 US$. There are 3 very good Indian restaurants in the downtown area: Simla Nilar Briyane Shop: They are next to each other on Anawratha Street between 31st and 32nd street. You can have a vegetarian meal for 0,8 US$. New Delhi restaurant is in the same street. It's equally good and clean. Their dosas are excellent and dirt cheap, although misteriously listed as "toeshays" on the menu (7/99).   There's also a good Burmese restaurant in the same street, but I forgot the name. Another good Thai & Burmese restaurant was in 999 Khauk Swai in 34th street nr. 130b. You have to look for it very carefully because it's a very small place. They serve good noodles in any style, tofu and chicken for only 0,4 US$ a meal. For breakfast, brunch, lunch or just a nice Chinese tea, you could go to the Black and White Bar. It is beside the Central Hotel. It is a little run down, but still a great place where you can meet nice people. they also serve good cold Mandalay or Myanmar Beer. If you need a good western afternoon snack, then go to J'Donut. This is the place where all the young people hang out. Donuts are cheap and good. You can find it on Pansodan street near the post office. If you are desperate for some western food, you can go to the small Aurora Inn Hotel (Thirimingala street, Kamayut township). The manager is a French lady, Sylvie de Guyon, and so are her meals. They are very good, but expect to pay around 15 US$. You can also get a very nice room with antique interior for around 30 US$. The place is frequented by Frenchmen. For a beer, go to the Golden Lion at the corner of Anawratha and Shwedagon Pagoda Rd., access from the pedestrian overpass (7/99).  

-->
