---
title: "Things to do in Alanya"
type: section
---

Alanya has something for everyone, whether you prefer to enjoy cultural events or like to be physically active. **The Alanya Castle**, built in 1226, is seen by thousands of tourists every year who are interested not only in the unique architecture but the rare copies of the Qur’an and the beautiful **Suleymaniye Mosque** within its walls. You can explore the famous **Damlatas Cave**, attend a concert given by the **Alanya Chamber Orchestra** or enjoy one of the many festivals. You may want to book your trip during the **Alanya Jazz Festival**, which attracts fine Jazz players from all over the globe.

You’ll love waking up in the morning and gazing out over the glittering waters of the harbor. If you rise early enough you can enjoy a rainbow over the waters, compliments of the light fog from nearby **Taurus Mountain**. The sparkling sands of the beaches are waiting for you! You’ll have a whole day of sunshine and indeed, the slogan of the Bureau of Tourism for Alanya is “where the sun smiles”. **Windsurfing**, **parasailing**, **banana boating**, and other water sports can fill your day or you can wander through the **magnificent museum** and other beautiful attractions.

Situated on the **Gulf of Antalya** on Turkey's Mediterranean coast, **Alanya** has been a favored seaside resort for over 800 years. Today's European package tourist is drawn here for much the same reasons as the **Seljuk Turks** all those centuries ago; the sea is warm and gentle, the beaches stretch for miles and the town has an interesting history. The southern part of the town is the most tourist-orientated, although fortunately a height-restriction has limited the sprawl common to resort towns; there is, however, the usual collection of resort-style hotels and tourist-orientated fare.

When the intense sun overpowers you, take a day trip to the** Dim Cayi Valley**, 15 km east of **Alanya**, where you can relax in the shade of this scenic valley and listen to the stream rushing by. **Avsallar** (incekum) about 25 km from Alanya to the west is a **holiday resort center** with fine sandy beaches. If you travel east from Alanya towards **Gazipasa** you will discover and no doubt linger on the **exceptional beaches**.

Some 50km/30mi southeast of Alanya on the coast road along the "**Turkish Riviera**" is the little town of **Gazipasa**. The town itself stands about 3km/2mi inland from the sea, on an alluvial plain formed by a number of streams flowing into the Mediterranean at this point. Here the headland known to the ancients as **Cape Selindi** falls steeply to the sea in almost vertical cliffs, its summit crowned by a ruined castle. In antiquity this was the site of the **Phoenician town of Selinús** (sela = "cliff"). In A.D. 117 the Emperor Trajan died here while returning from his Parthian campaign. For a period thereafter the town was known as **Traianopolis**. 30 km east of Alanya, **Aytap**, the historical harbor city, is a great excursion site, with Roman ruins, secluded beaches and bays.

**Anamur** (pop. 29,000) lies on the east side of the cape, at the foot of the **Taurus Mountains** about 4km/2.5mi upstream from the mouth of **The Sultan Suyu**. 7km/4.5mi further on, beyond the turn-off to **Ermenek**, **Anamur Castle** (**Anamur Kalesi**, **Mamure Kalesi**), makes an imposing sight on a headland jutting into the sea. The fortress was one of the most notorious and feared of corsair strongholds in the early middle Ages and was subsequently enlarged and strengthened by the Crusaders. Formidable walls encircle it, with 36 round or square towers mostly excellently preserved, and parapet walks reached by staircases inside the walls. The main entrance to the castle, which has three courts or wards, is through a tower on the west side.

A road winding its way through the **Old Town of Alanya** climbs the citadel hill (250m/820ft) to the courtyard of the upper fortress, at the north end of which stands the **castle mosque** (**Kale Camii**). In the same courtyard are a ruined cruciform Byzantine church and, at the southern end, a lighthouse erected in 1720. Adjoining the west wall is the citadel proper, in a good state of repair. It affords **superb panoramic views over the Mediterranean coastal plain**, taking in the scattered houses of Alanya, the fruit orchards and the **Ak Dagi Massif**.

You can find more information, including restaurants, history, news, weather, travel guides, discount hotels and flights over at www.AlanyaHotels.net
