# Getting there

*Asia > Northeastasia > China > Yunnanprovince > Getting There*

Kunming is the transportation hub of the Yunnan Province, with links to all parts of the province via road, rail and air. Kunming has become an important gateway, linking China to Southeast Asia, South Asia, as well as the pacific region. The province also has 10 national ports, 8 provincial ports and 20 highways linking neighboring countries. There are eight civil airports in Yunnan apart from Kunming - [Dali](/asia/northeastasia/china/yunnanprovince/dali), [Lijiang](/asia/northeastasia/china/yunnanprovince/lijiang), Baoshan, Mangshi, Zhantong, Simao, and Xishuangbanna. A new airport, Lincang airport, is now under construction. Kunming is one of the five major international airports in China. It operates 7 provincial routes and more than 40 domestic and international routes. Passengers can fly from Kunming to many major cities in China, including [Beijing](/asia/northeastasia/china/beijing), [Shanghai](/asia/northeastasia/china/shanghai), [Guangzhou](/asia/northeastasia/china/guangzhou) and [Chengdu](/asia/northeastasia/china/sichuanprovince/chengdu). They can also fly to [Hong Kong](/asia/northeastasia/china/hongkong), Rangoon, [Bangkok](/asia/southeastasia/thailand/bangkok), [Chiang mai](/asia/southeastasia/thailand/chiangmai), [Vientiane](/asia/southeastasia/laos/vientiane), [Singapore](/asia/southeastasia/singapore) and [Kuala Lumpur](/asia/southeastasia/malaysia/kualalumpur). 

 Kunming airport is 3.9 kilometers from the city center. Ticket office telephones: (0871) 3138562 / 3164270 

 The railways linking Kunming constitute the southwest part of the nation's network. Yunnan has also a total of 100,000 kilometers of highway; the third-largest road network in China. These highways link Yunnan with other provinces and other countries. An expressway linking Kunming and Qujing has been put into operation.
