---
title: "CIVIC ARCHEOLOGICAL MUSEUM"
type: poi
---

The civic archeological museum of Finale Ligure is housed in the convent of Santa Caterina. It is divided into five rooms, with collections ranging from the geology of the Quaternary period up to the Middle Ages and the Modern Age. In the first section we find a reconstruction of the Finale region from the geological viewpoint, showing the most interesting rock formations and morphological phenomena. This is followed by fossils and examples of «Finale stone,» a type of limestone dating from the Tertiary period. After a review of the karst phenomena and caves in the area, we come to the first traces of human presence and a reconstruction of prehistoric environmental conditions. The second room contains finds from the Paleolithic era, among the few to have been uncovered in the region. In addition there are articles from the plateau of the Mànie, tools made from bone, the remains of a number of species of animals, including Merck’s rhinoceros, the panther from the Caverna delle Fate and the cave bear, and the only Neanderthal bones to have been found in Northern Italy. In the third and fourth room we pass from the Neolithic to the Bronze Age and from the Iron Age to ancient Rome. The objects on display include several skeletons ritual objects, fragments of decorated pots and tools in everyday use. After a rapid succession of finds from the protohistoric era, with numerous amphora and burial goods, we come to the fifth and last room, whose showcases house materials found in graveyards from the Roman era, among them a funeral inscription and a large number of coins.
