---
title: "COLLECTIONS OF THE PRIAMÀR -SAVONA"
type: poi
---

The civic museums of Savona are located in the monumental complex of the Priamàr fortress. The ground floor of the Loggia del Castello Nuovo houses the Museo Archeologico, displaying finds that cover a span of time from the Middle Bronze Age, the period of the earliest frequentation of the Priamàr hill by the Ligures Sabazi, to the nineteenth century. The layout of the museum is a highly suggestive one: its fusion of the exhibition space and the archeological site allows visitors to follow the age-old history of the hill in close contact with the pottery, metal and glass objects located in the showcases, moving along a route that passes through the sixteenth- to eighteenth-century structures of the Loggia and the «cap-shaped» and amphora tombs of the necropolis dating from the late-classical period. Alongside the exhibits from the Roman era and the pottery from the Middle Ages and modern period found in the excavations carried out on the Priamàr site itself, it is worth mentioning a number of objects whose archeological context is uncertain, including a marble relief from the Imperial age representing a hunting scene, discovered in the area of the old cathedral of Santa Maria and mosaics from the late-Roman era that were probably produced in North Africa. Sine 1992 the Loggia has also housed the Museo d’Arte Sandro Pertini, made up of the works he collected during his lifetime, donated by the president’s wife, Carla Voltolina. There are around a hundred paintings and sculptures in all, often accompanied by dedications written by the artists themselves. These include Morandi, de Chirico, de Pisis, Guttuso and Sassu. The San Bernardo bastion, on the other hand, contains the donation by the well-known sculptress from Savona, Renata Cuneo, who has bequeathed the city a large number of plaster casts, sculptures of various dimensions and materials and over 150 drawings. The collection is laid out ion two floors and follows the course of the artist’s development from her First Work (1926) the «studies after the masters of 1989.
