---
title: "Bishop Tutu's House"
type: poi
---

need to escape asap some tryied to kill me and some how i think i know who it is so check the following person out andrew bean, donald lough, adrew card, donand evens. that will lead you to my law suit against ford and a inside job. Mr. Troupe, our records indicated that your e-mail messages was responded to on March 11, 2004. I truly apologize if you feel that you have been ignored. To confirm, an e-mail message that was sent to you on this date 3/11/04. I have re-submitted the letter to assure you that we have not ignored your complaint. At this time our office finds that it does not contains allegations that may be forward to an enforcement agency. Should you need more information, I would be glad to assist you with our Getting Uncle Sam to Enforce your Civil Rights Pamphlet. Thank you -----Original Message----- From: Elmer Troupe [mailto:etroupe43@yahoo.com] Sent: Sunday, March 14, 2004 6:11 PM To: Brooks, Teresa Subject: RE: i need an attorney or employment or grant ( Need You help asap) because you ignored my rights, you now have to deal with maryland civil rights commission . thank you for the civil rights commission of washington and if you don't follow it up again i will have the united states marshall have you arested for ignoring my call. i asked for attorney you refused to help me i ask for naacp they stand for civil and you refuse to help. "Brooks, Teresa" wrote: -----Original Message----- From: Elmer Troupe [mailto:etroupe43@yahoo.com] Sent: Friday, December 19, 2003 5:16 PM To: mdcr-CCT@michigan.gov; MDCRServiceCenter@michigan.gov; lparker@bsu.edu; wwwadmin@usccr.gov; OCR_DC@ed.gov; OCR@ed.gov; OCR_Atlanta@ed.gov; referrals; callenusccr@netscape.net Subject: i need an attorney or employment or grant ( Need You help asap) My civil rights and human rights are being taken away sence 1997 and you refuse to do any thing about 6410 ellsworth, 20515 prevost.. friend of court ----they woun"t let me pay child support. ford--------------------they woun't let me colletct my award after the arbitratrotor in formed to release the funds. eeoc------------------gmac they refuse to take the case because some fed me food that erase my memmory. naacp ---------------comerica discriminated. michigsn civil rights commision refuse to call back or email. or transfer funds to my account at standard federal account (ida Griffin) supervisor if you are famiar with the case sence 1997. can't get in dream world all because you wont be what you say you are (the civil rights commission). I wont my money now (no children , no family, no friends) before i get to old to enjoy having children. can't find an attorney Please email all pearson on the civil rights commission past and presentsence I conclud that if she not going to call or email and time is going by then monday i shell email jenerfer granholm and Mr. Bush about the impeachment of nenett renolds and Linda Parker of the civil rights commision. Rev . Banks. Mohammed abdrabboh,j.d. Bishop George E brown Albert calille Dr Tarun K sharma Valerie P. Simmons Gary Torgow Margaret M, Van Houten Francisco J. Villarruel i contacted Director Picture for my cash or monitary funds and she won't contact me back. can you see what the hold up is. You can call sheila don't know her last name of the civil rights commission to see whats the hold up it's been seven years. i've been denied sex and and my award for seven years those people going to pay by going to jail. (Eeoc) or Attorney Greveasnvence please beware that those following company are closing i ask for there charter and article of incorporation. I'm asking for the following articles of incorporation, and Also thier charter Detrot work place mtb bcbs ford gm naacp friend of court ssi mesc eeoc American arbitraction association they left me with my tail between my legs at davenport unversity (doreen greenwald) Do an interview with me The sceame William Ford sr, Bill Ford , William Slate, Richard Alllen Dennis Ross Pulled on me with coleman a young stuff . (they didn,d see me coming) They holding my monitary award while the germans and Itaiouns hold me down. While they make love to our women.. . If you vaule my life please email all friends thank you. I'm still waingting for the article of incororation and charter and stock and bonds. they all broke the law. and i have proof. call ida griffen at standard federal. ford naacp st joshph hospital blue cross blue shild no family no children. 44 years old The ceo of the naacp and the ceo ford and ceo bcbs ceo friend of court broken the law and I request that al charters and article of incorporation. Be seaise under my name. Before they kill me. Take me serisous contacted un request to leave they inform me to wait till I receive my award Please beware that the following situation must be done ( please release chairmanship (CEO) and the release of the (article of incoration)) to me asap due to your lack of responsiveness. I would like my award asap (70,000,000) so I may get an attorney out of the country. Mr. Troupe - Your e-mail of 7/18/03 was directed to me for a response. As a neutral agency, we cannot refer you to an attorney. According to our records, an award was issued on October 15, 1997 in the matter of Troupe vs. Ford Motor Company, Case No. 54 160 0262 96. This file has been closed. If I can be of any further assistance, please advise. Jan Holdinski Asst. VP American Arbitration Association Detroit Regional Office -----Original Message----- From: Tracey Hegeman Sent: Tuesday, July 22, 2003 3:49 PM To: Janice Holdinski Cc: Kathryn Stifter; Molly Bargenquest Subject: FW: Employment (HELP)I need an attorney, Ford Motor Co. is trying to kill me Please summit to your president and presendent of usa Hi Jan, Kate forwarded this message to me but I see he had a case with us in 1996. The case # 54 160 262 96. Thanks, Tracey -----Original Message----- From: Elmer Troupe [mailto:etroupe43@yahoo.com] Sent: Friday, July 18, 2003 3:20 PM To: Kathryn Stifter Subject: Employment (HELP)I need an attorney, Ford Motor Co. is trying to kill me Please summit to your president and presendent of usa Please give this email (letter) to your CEO and Manager I have other lawsuits that has not come fourth TomYandrick, Vito, Sherman, Jack, Ken at Ford dynamometer. Discontinue Ford Motor Service WHY Thank you for the time and consideration. Can you check on a lawsuit or arbitration that I completed, that ford is holding since 1995 I believe there is a conspiracy going on, can you check on it. Attorney Grievance (Carl, Andrea, Terry Land), Dennis Ross, Andrew Bean, Donald Laugh and the (AAA) Arbitrator.... I heard from an admistrator that the going rate for being called the (Nigger repeatedly, Coon, Porch Monkey, kick around physically), word is (1,000,000 for just the (N) word) is this is true, if so, contact Attorney Grievance office Carl, Andria and Terrie Land. Andrew bean and Donald laugh gave me 250.000 and gave me the run around. And I'm still waiting for my money. 1995-2003. Also, I was told to clean up the mess, ford dynameters made, (I was informed as a student) from a collages of mine to receive a check from ford totaling 400,000 every two week for hardship and damages (never receive a check), also, I was to receive two office keys from world head quarters on the 11th and 12th floor during the week that George was visiting Dearborn (that never happen). I was going to put the friend of court in one office and (SSI because of MESC) in the other. Ford Human Resources vice president Joe (don't know last name) in the way for clean up. Also, at Davenport University a conspiracy with ford and davenport Human resource and student services for employment. NAACP Wendell Anthony and Ford don't wont to here about my civil rights 6410 Ellsworth. Check Ford and NAACP relationship. Can you validate weather this conspiracy true. If you have any problem call Dennis Archer previous mayor of Detroit, or Spencer Abraham, Susan Borman is the presiding Judge. Lost home couldn't find a job (eeoc, Ida, Gilmore) 6410 Ellsworth 20515 prevost. Going on 8 years you just turn me down for employment (EEOC, James Neely). You are UAW Legal Service (Lisa Green) 5220 Oakman. Mr. Ron Gettlefinger President correct. Contact Ron Pocrita at Ford Motor dynamometer and Ken Vanordin. Still wating for check every two weeks. Or a reply from bill ford or Human Recourse Elmer Troupe Jr. Home: 753-2266 Pager/Voice Mail: 364-0396 P.O. BOX 19353 Email: Etroupe43@yahoo.com Detroit, MI 48219 Email: Etroupe43@hotmail.com 28075 lahser rd apt 802w Tower of Southfield Southfield Michigan Career: To obtain a challenging position as an clerical, administration assistant, Objective: Utilizing my knowledge and problem solving abilities. Education: CENTRAL MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY Mt. Pleasant, MI. Pursuing Masters In General Administration DAVENPORT UNIVERSITY Dearborn, MI. (Formerly Detroit College of Business) Bachelor of Business Administration - Computer Information Systems LEWIS COLLEGE OF BUSINESS Detroit, MI. Associate of Business Administration - Data Processing C.I.T.C.I.P. Detroit, MI. Certificate in Computer Programming AREAS OF Cobol Excel PowerPoint KNOWLEDGE Access Microsoft Project Outlook ACCOMPLISHMENTS: · Coordinated Personnel with parts and room availability, Create, implement, and change global engine course schedule on a quarterly basis and as updates/changes are needed. Receive, approve, and implement all course schedule requests. Enter and monitor fixed and variable course pricing. Monitor pricing to insure all costs are covered. Create reports and track course deliveries and financials. Establish and create partnerships with the Global transition center and general Logistics. Assist in processing course related invoices and billing. May be asked to coordinate implement, and/or participate in the execution of special projects · Monitored engineers and technicians for efficient work flow · Rebuilt engine blocks and parts · Resolved conflicts between engineers and supervisors · Operated Retail computer Store outlet · Recorded, paid and filed monthly bills for various expenses incurred by the company · Managed Microsoft project monthly account for 100 technician, and engineers WORK HISTORY: Ford Motor Company Dearborn, MI. Scheduler 8/89 - Standard Federal Bank Livonia, MI. Data and Number Processor 5/86 - 8/89 Bosco Fish & Poultry Detroit, MI. Fish and Poultry Dresser 3/79 - 5/86 References: Available upon request ELMER TROUPE JR. P.O. BOX 19353 Detroit, Mi. 48219 Phone: 313-753-2266 Pager/Voice Mail: 313-364-0396 Email: Etroupe43@yahoo.com Email: Etroupe43@hotmail.com July, 2003 Dear: Human Resource Manager: In response to your recent advertisement, please accept this letter in application for the position currently available within your company. As you can see from my enclosed resume, my degree, as well as my diverse skills, make me a strong candidate for this position. I present my self as the type of person who always asks, " How can this be done better?" I wish to use this strategy in the position. Establish a retail computer and publishing company, also, involved in Detroit community reinvestment strategy, operation clean sweep, and, perform setup regarding Prostate Cancer Marathon Project though Sinai Grace hospital. I would appreciate the opportunity to discuss my credentials with you at a mutually convenient time. Thank you for your consideration. Respectfully Yours, Elmer Troupe Jr. Enclosure: Resume

address: Nxumala Street, Orlando West, Phefini

email: etroupe43@yahoo.com

-->
