---
title: "Practical Information"
type: section
---

General The state of Jammu and Kashmir lies between longitude 73 o – 75 o and latitude 33 o – 36 o and comprises of 5,134 square miles or 13,297 square kilometers of area. The topography is mainly hilly and mountainous with valleys and stretches of plains. The area is full of natural beauty with thick forest, fast flowing rivers and winding streams. The main rivers are Jehlum, Neelum and Poonch. The climate is sub-tropical highland type with an average yearly rainfall of 1300 mm. The elevation ranges from 360 meters in the south to 6325 meters in the north. The snowline is in winter is around 1200 meters above sea level while in the summer it rises to 3,300 meters. The total population of 2.973 million according to the Population Census of 1998 is estimated to be 3.271 million in 2002. Almost 100% population is Muslim. Out of the total population, 87.5% are living in rural areas while 12.5% are urban residents. The population density is 246 persons per square kilometer. The literacy rate was reported as 55% in the 1998 census, is estimated to be 60% in 2002. According to the most recent available survey by the Northern Resources Management Program with the assistance of Overseas Economic Research Institute, the average household income is around Rs. 101,900. Of the total Rs. 60,834 (59.7%) is income from the off-farm and other activities while Rs. 41,065 (40.3%) is termed as the farm income, which implies that Rs. 14,557 per capita is the total family income. The area under cultivation is around 170,787 hectares which is about 12.8% of the total area of AJK. According to the agricultural census of 1990, the average farm size is only 1.2 hectares, half of which is cultivated. A large proportion of farm land is uncultivable waste, including forest. Per Capita land holding is 0.159 hectares. The major crops are Maize followed by Wheat and Rice while the minor crops include Grams, Pulses, Oil-Seeds and Vegetables. The area under fruit cultivation is about 14,460 hectares. The most important fruits are Apples, Pears, Apricots, Walnuts and Plums. The area controlled by the Forest Department is about 5669,969 hectares, which is 42.6% of the total geographical area. Deodar, Kail, Fur, Spruce and Cheer are some of the most important species of trees under forests.

**Government** Kashmir has a parliamentary form of Government. The President of Jammu and Kashmir is the constitutional Head of the State, while the Prime Minister, supported by a council of ministers, is the Chief Executive. Kashmir has its own Supreme Court, High Court, and Legislative Assembly comprising of 48 members, out of which 40 are directly elected and 8 are indirectly elected - a member each from the technocrats, Mashaikh, Overseas Kahmiris and 5 females. The Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Affairs serves as a link between the Government of Pakistan and the Government of Kashmir. Since Kashmir inherited a backward and underdeveloped economy, the major objective of the Pakistani Government has been to promote its economic development and provide it with grants-in-aid for the purpose, and also to cover the deficits in its revenue budget.

**Administration** Kashmir is divided into 2 divisions (Muzaffarabad and Mirpur) and seven administrative districts with Muzaffarabad City as the capital of the state. The Muzaffarabad division includes Muzaffarabad, Bagh, Poonch, and Sudhnuti districts whereas the Mirpur division comprises of Mirpur, Kotli and Bhimber districts. The people’s participation in the political process is ensured through the elected institutions of local bodies. There are 202 Union Councils, 10 Town Committees, 50 Markaz Councils, 2 Municipal Corporations and 11 Municipal Committees with 19 sub-divisions (Tarakhel as a proposed subdivision) and 1646 Villages.

**Economic Development**At the time of partition in 1947, the economy in Jammu and Kashmir was on sustenance level but the determination to develop the area was there. It was the early 70’s when economic development of the area started in earnest. Despite financial constraints, planners made good efforts in laying down a proper path for the rapid development of the area.

**Contributors**
March 14, 2005

March 15, 2005
