# Sights in St Maarten

*Centralamericathecaribbean > Thecaribbean > Netherlandsantilles > Stmaarten > Sights*

St. Maarten is charmingly dual-faced in its identity and is split between the French Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles to extend to its visitor a hybrid of both cultures. The St Maarten Sights gives visitors extensive information of the attractions and sights that dot the landscape of this alluringly bifurcated island.
Natural glory
The Butterfly Farm is a breathtakingly beautiful tourist spot that lets visitors catch glimpses of hundreds of butterflies in attractive aesthetic patterns and nuances in a expansive tropical rainforest that is flanked by exotic flowers, pristine waterfalls and attractive ponds. The butterflies are left in their natural abode and are flying all over your head while you appreciate nature’s stunning creations. The must watch natural phenomenon here is in the early hours of the day, when a fragile butterfly is breaking open its pupa and embarking on its inaugural flight. Simply superb. The striking outdoors are perfect for a day trip with kids in tow. There are friendly guides who will help you navigate through the park and acquaint with the lives of the vulnerable creatures. Butterfly Farm is open daily from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. and the entry fee per person is $ 12.
Head to Pic du Paradis for a stunning view of the island. This is the highest peak of the region which features two vantage view offering locations.
Wow water body
A trip to any part of The Caribbean is incomplete without paying a tribute to its pristine coastal wonders. Saint Marteen is no exception, the island boasts of a whopping collection of thirty-seven beaches with a majority of them being privately owned by prominent sea-side resorts. Unwind with some de-stressing tanning sessions on the sun-smacked beaches or go swimming in its cobalt waters. Hard to pin down adventure buffs can try the adrenalin soaring water sports. The best way to let your hair down here is to grab a drink at one of the beach bars and catch the unguarded beauty of the region. The most famous beaches in St. Marteen are Orient Beach, Cupecoy Beach and Maho Bay. Mullet Bay is a great option for charming beach-side lounge rentals and the vendors here serve delicious food and beverages.
Adventure freaks here I come
The Loterie Farm is a nice spot for hikes and adventure eco-tours on a sprawling 150 acre expanse. The rope zips flying is a high action activity that requires visitors to encounter tree-top obstacles. The place also houses an intimate and secluded restaurant and lounge that is operational from late evenings.
St Marteen is a whimsical destination that lets visitors revel in its unpredictable spirit and makes no bones of its predilection for having a wild time all year round.
