---
title: "Eating Out"
type: section
---

If you get hungry during the day there are many small sandwich shops and local restaurants you can visit. If you can get yourself up in the early morning hours, you can visit The Sandcastle Café for a hearty breakfast. This café is conveniently located on Mallory street in the village shopping center. You can sit outside, while you eat, and enjoy a view of the island pier or nearby Neptune Park . Sights and smells are abundant here. As you walk in you can instantly smell simmering mouth watering foods that are being cooked. You will notice that the walls are filled with pictures of the islands marshes, the old village, and a lot of pictures of different men who have caught a great big fish. This local restaurant serves a big buffet style breakfast filled pancakes, hot biscuits, fresh fruits, muffins, and greasy breakfast meats that are sure to leave you feeling full. If you just want to eat lunch somewhere, the 4 th of May is a great little place to go. It is also located in the village shopping center. It is always busy, but is considered worth the wait. They serve an array of different home-style sandwiches as well as different entrées consisting of some type of southern cooked meat and side of buttery vegetables. Dinner is most the most popular meal of the day on the island. Around four thirty everyday the beaches and shopping centers become desolate of people who have gone to prepare for an evening dinner. The local restaurants usually start filling up with people dressed in casual attire around seven. One of the Island’s most well-known restaurants is Mullet Bay . This restaurant itself is modeled after an old southern style home and is surrounded by many large native island plants and trees. All of the doors and window on the restaurant are open, and allows for a steady island breeze to flow through the inside dining area. However, some prefer to sit on the restaurants wrap around porch filled with whirling ceiling fans and a more open natural atmosphere. Items on the menu here are most often described as grilled, blackened, or fried. There is absolutely no shortage of fresh delicious seafood to choose from here. If you still have enough room for desert you should visit Sweet Mama’s, the island’s famous ice cream and sweets shop. As you walk in the door you will here a small bell ring and the aroma of baking treats fills your nose. All of the sweet pastries, chewy cookies, and slices moist of cake that are served here, are made every morning from scratch. Aunt dee’s pound cake is a hot seller at Sweet Mama’s. The cake is moist, soft, and is topped of with a unique cream cheese icing that seems to melt in your mouth. Once you have eaten one of these sweet delicacies you will find yourself wanting to try them all.

**Contributors**
October 16, 2005
