---
title: "O Rosal valley"
type: location
---

O Rosal valley, according to Fernández de la Granja, the origin of the name O Rosal (The Rosebush) dates from the Greek colonization, even though according to some authors its origin lies in the beauty of a rich, fertile valley. Paleolithic remains found in various lithic pieces have been discovered at Marzán, Torroso and As Eiras. Also some rests from the Bronze Age (1,900 to 600 BC.) and rupestrian carvings have been found. The castros, later Roman settlements, are present at places such as Pomba, Portela, O Picón and Calvario. San Vicente de Marzán was an important village within the context of Roman-mediaeval culture and it gathered the first Christianism signs in the municipality, as evidenced by San Vicente hermitage -documented as early as the 14th century. Carlos V granted it with the title of "Very Loyal Village" ("Muy Leal Villa") in return for the loyalty of its population in the revolts against the Comunidades. Apart from that, O Rosal's inhabitants also played an active role in the battles against Portugal.

Amongst its monuments, the Carmelitas convent, the House of Devea, San Antonio chapel and the Lasiotes' House stand out. O Rosal's physiognomy is distinguished by four different parts which cross it from river Carballo's fertile valley, through the shores covered by river Miño's fluvial terraces, the straight, inhospitable (3 metres long) coastline, up to the summits of the hills which protect Carballo valley eastward and westward. Grape vines and fruit trees are its most important sources of income, thanks to its climate. This area has made famous the mirabel (mock cypress), a fruit tree native of Central Europe, whose fruit -similar to the plum- is canned and commercialized in Galicia from this very land. O Rosal wines are also part of Galicia's wine selection. Corn and potatoes are its main crops. Porcine, bovine and poultry stock are the leading cattle varieties of a council that also has sheep, goats, horses and beehives. Despite being a wild littoral, there is some fishing complemented with the exploitation of the seaweed landing on these coasts. Trouts, eels, salmons and shads can be caught at river Miño. There is hardly any industry in the entire municipality, as a consequence of which most of its population works at Vigo-based enterprises.
