---
title: "Ria of Vigo"
type: location
---

The Ria of Vigo is wedge-shaped, like a great mouth, open as though land's fangs were devouring a stretch of sea. There is, however, a remarkable difference between this ria and the others of southern Galicia. While those of Muros, Arousa and Pontevedra get narrower at the landward end, Vigo's Ria is narrowest at Rande, widening again to form the San Simón Bay. At the entrance of Vigo's Ria, standing like three stone watch-towers aground in the ocean, are the Cíe Islands, a protected natural park, where one may contemplate interesting samples of fauna -among which the guillemot stands out- and flora, where Corema album is queen. The Cíes, which can be reached from Vigo, are not only outstanding for their natural interest, but also for the ruggedness of their cliffs and the whiteness of their beaches, not forgetting that, up to a point, they protect the ria from storms coming in from the Atlantic, permitting the presence of numerous bateas (mussel-farming platforms) in its waters. Vigo's Ria, owing to its privileged situation, is home not only for the city that gives it its name, with one of the best harbours in Europe, but also to other places with a long and rich history-we must not forget that the ria has been a trade route since prehistoric times. Contiguous with its southern shore is Baiona, set on an open cove by the mouth of the River Miñor, where for several hundred years trade was concentrated before the spectacular development of Vigo at the end of the 19th Century. On the north shore is Cangas, a town with a strong economic drive which still preserves what is traditional and typical in its streets, together with ancestral customs, as does Moaña, another beautiful seafaring spot. To the northeast, the ria becomes narrower at Rande, where it is crossed by the motorway linking Vigo with the north of Galicia, thanks to a spectacular suspension bridge, with one of the longest spans in the world. After Rande, we come to Redondela, a town marked by the railway and its iron bridges. At the head of the ría is Pontesampaio, a name resounding in overtones of freedom -for the battle that brought an end to French dominion in 1809- and Arcade, one of Europe's major oyster beds.
