---
title: Vigo City
type: location
done:
  location_cleanup: 2026-04-06
---

A good combination of a bay "with which, in many respects, none other in the world can compare" (G. Borrow) and maritime industrial infrastructure (shipyards, canneries, fishing port, etc.) explains the rapid growth of this city since the end of the 19th Century. Today it is the most populous city of Galicia. It has splendid parks, museums, a zoo and beaches. It still has the small old sailing quarter of O Berbés. Castrelos Park, surely the most beautiful municipal park in all Galicia, is home the Quiñones de León Manor Museum, now the city museum. The city of Vigo began its modern development from the last decades of the 19th-cent. onwards. However, this has not prevented it from being a historic, monumental city. The Celtic castro which was the city's origin, Galicia's largest Roman necropolis, the Romanesque temples, O Castro's mediaeval fortress.... and Martín Codax's poetic testimony give good evidence of our affirmation. The council of Vigo, with almost 300000 inhabitants, and being the most populated city of Galicia, is placed on one of the most beautiful landscapes in the peninsula, dominating the estuary which has the same name. Vigo and the sea are inseparable. In the 16th century its port, called Berbés, was a point of important international trade. The raids of Drake, which affected the city, also gave rise to many other struggles, whose turning-point came with the Battle of Rande and the sinking of the Galleons of the Indies. Later episodes of war marked the life of Vigo during the War of Independence. In the 19th century, the city was a provincial capital for some time. More importantly, its industrial and commercial achievements have made it a pillar of the Galician economy. The Neo-classical Collegiate of Santa María and the urban centre with its harmonious combination of quiet streets and broad avenues, all deserve a mention. Another suggested visit is the Quiñones de León Museum, which holds some important collections, mainly of paintings. Not to be forgotten are the splendid views over the ria and the nearby Cíes Islands, that can be seen from O Castro, the A Guía and the A Madroa.
