---
title: "A perfect day in"
type: location
---

Start your perfect day in Amsterdam at the Spui, which is located half way through the Kalverstraat. Pick up some bread rolls at “Broodje van Kootje”, buy a newspaper from the Atheneaum magazine shop take a seat, if the weather is good .If it happens to be a rainy day there are lots of very nice coffee bars situated around the Spui also. 

After having a hearty breakfast we are ready for some serious stuff. If we jump on a tram 2 or 5, these pass through the Spui regularly, we can make our way to the Museumplein. Here you are spoiled for choice with all the different kinds of museums. Firstly, there is The Van Gogh Museum, which holds a lot of Van Gogh greatest works, and also works from various other acclaimed artists. Just next to the Van Gogh there is the Stadelijk Museum. This houses a collect of modern art and has numerous expeditions throughout the year. Leaving these museums behind us we make our way towards our last museum, The Rijks Museum. This is quite a large museum and could take some time to get around, but it is worth it. Art dates from the 12th century and has a superb collection of Dutch masters, including the Nachtwacht, by Rembrandt. 

Lunchtime. One of the best spots to have lunch is on top of the old shopping building Metz in the Leidsestraat. If we take a tram from the Museumplein it is not far, it is also not far to walk. You can take the elevator to the top floor where the restaurant is, here you can get a bird’s eye view of Amsterdam. If you want to try something Dutch try the selection of various Dutch meats and cheeses with mustard called “bittergarnituur”. Very nice or “lekker” as they say in Dutch. 

After lunch a good place to check out is the Albert Cyup Market. The best way to get there is to walk, so if you walk through the Leidseplein and go to your right in the direction in which the trams run. If you walk along the Weteringsschans for about 10 minutes it will bring to the Heinekenplein, turn to you right at the roundabout, go pass the Heineken Museum and this will bring you o the Albert Cyup Market. The Cuyp is a great place to shop for clothes and fresh food and also a great way to see the real international Amsterdam. 

When you're tired of shopping, it's time to relax If we make our way back to the Heinekenplein and visit one of the two supermarkets, the Albert Hein or the Dirk Van Den Broek. “Dirk” is very cheap and has a good selection of goodies and the “Albert” is a little more expensive but it has better quality products. A good idea is to get a picnic together and take it to the local Vondelpark, it’s situated near the Leidseplein and is nice and “chilled out” on a fine day. There are plenty activities going on with a lot of rollerbladers, musicans and plenty of soccer games been played. It really is one of the best ways to sit back and watch the world go by. At night, a nice way to explore the canals a little more without having to use your feet is to take a diner cruise. You’ll will be served top class cuisine and you can enjoy the beauty of the canals a night. It can be a little expensive but is definitly the perfect way to eat good food and enjoy the beauty of Amsterdam. 

When you're back on the shore again, the time has come to hit the city. A good idea might be to first go to the Jordaan, the neighbourhood around the Westerkerk. Here you'll find lots of nice and cosy bars perfect for starting the evenings drinking. Afterwards possibly the best place to go to is the Leidseplein. In the summer the square is one big terrace and you can sit there until late in the night and watch the numerous attractions that are going on. It is definitely very entertaining and there is never a dull moment. A nice bar we would like to recommend is the Spuyt in the Korte Leidse Dwarsstraat, it’s a nice quite place to relax after a long day. 

Most pubs close at 1am during the week and 3am during weekends, but that doesn't mean it is time to go home. But first you will want to eat something. The Febo on Leidsestraat caters for those who can’t resist some greasy food after a few beers. Finally, one of the best places you can visit the 'Bourbon Street' in the Leidse Kruisstraat. This is a blues/jazz like club with live music. It usually stays open until 05:00. After that if you’re not too tired and your ready to handle breakfast you be glad know that the bakeries will be starting to open around this time. This will bring to an end your perfect day in Amsterdam and I think now your ready for a well deserved sleep. I hope you enjoyed our way to having a “perfect day” in Amsterdam. ...
