---
title: "Athens"
type: location
---

A visit to 3,000-years-old Athens, the capital of Greece can be a dream come true or a nightmare. Usually it is a little of both. On the one hand, the city with its 4 million inhabitants, is surrounded by beautiful hills. On the other hand, the peaks can be obscured by terrible pollution. At times, the horn honking and hustle and bustle of downtown will drive you crazy. Suddenly, however, you will find yourself in the Plaka area wandering cobblestone streets lined with colourful houses, gardens, quaint shops and small *tavernas*. From the vantage point of ancient monuments and amphitheatres, you can look down on modern skyscrapers. The centre of the modern city on its turn borders the Agora, the ancient marketplace. 

The Acropolis, the hill upon which the Parthenon and other important sites are located, is the first place you should visit. Not all its attractions are on top of the hill, so take your time to appreciate the ruins you will pass along your way upwards to the top of the hill. In fact, before starting up, take a look at the amphitheatres and the Odeon of Herod Atticus (this is one of the locations where the Athens Festival is held during summer). As you climb, pause to look at the various views of the city -the layer of brown smog is seen less frequently than in the past thanks to restrictions on automobile use. Amongst the monuments to investigate on the Acropolis are the small Ionian temple of Athena Nike (pronouced *nee-kay* and also called the Temple of the Winged Victory), the Erechtheion, the Theatre of Dionysus and the Parthenon (5th century BC). There are also other temples, a museum and caves (though you are not allowed to visit these). At the beginning of April, until the fifteenth of October, a sound-and-light show is held at 9pm. Many nights, these performances are in English and your hotel often has the schedule of these shows. 

Other interesting things to see and do in Athens include taking a trip to the top of the Hill of Philopappou (Hill of the Muses) for a great view of the city and seeing the skirted soldiers (called *Evzones*) perform a changing-of-the-guard ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, in front of the Parliament building on Constitution Square. Afterwards, relax at the Zappion, a beautiful garden with shaded benches. You should also see the Temple of Olympian Zeus and Hadrian’s Arch (these are next to each other, just a few blocks from the Acropolis). Be intrigued at the Roman Forum, or Roman Agora, by the Tower of Winds, built in the first century BC, and the Hadrian’s Library, which shows how he stored manuscripts. Not-to-be-missed either are the Presidential Palace and the National Archaeological Museum which is located at the Polytechnic University. Upscale shopping can be found at the Constitution (Syntagma) Square at the Kolonaki area and there is a flea market at Monastiraki (especially good on Sunday mornings). 

There are several spots near Athens that can be visited as either full- or half-day trips. However, when you have the time, spending the night there is a better option. These excursions include the Peloponnese Peninsula (Epidaurus Corinth Mycenae), Cape Sounion, Delphi Eleusis and Marathon. Many visitors to Athens take a full-day cruise on a hovercraft out of the port of Piraeus to either Poros, Hydra or Aegina, three of the most popular Saronic Gulf Islands. Although a day trip is better than nothing, we feel that also in this case, one or two nights should be spent on each island. If you are not planning to visit any of the Greek isles on your trip, visit a beach resort such as Glyfada (on the southern side of Athens, not far from the airport), Vouliagmeni or Varkiza. They are not great for swimming, but are locally known as 'tanning' beaches. Just lay back and enjoy the sunshine after a steady walking-trip.
