# Beach resort silver sand Travel Guide

*Asia > Southasia > India > Maharashtra > Konkan > Beach Resort Silve*

The best resource for sights, hotels, restaurants, bars, what to do and see

Sweet moments….
Heartwarming memories…
Quite simply, there’s nothing
As delightful as a fun-filled.

Location: - situated in the heart of the konkan village of murud (harnai) in dapoli ratnagiri and from Mumbai 250 kms NH -. 17 & 200 kms. From Pune. Silver sand beach resort is unique .A small village by itself. Here you stay like lord vast open spaces allow you absorb all energies generated by creation. You can enjoy every moment every wave in the sea .the beach is very clean with crispy air &breeze simply unwinding all your wildest fantasy.

How to get there: -By road; - from Mumbai to dapoli more transport for murud. Govt buses, private vehicle. Dapoli murud is 240 kms.from Mumbai, 180kms.from Pune, 246-kms.from Kolhapur, 130kms from satara & 400 kms from goa by road. One can come here from Mumbai, Pune, and Kolhapur by ST buses or by train .the nearest railway station is khed (bharnenaka) nearly 38 kms. From murud- dapoli the nearest airport is Ratnagiri. One can come here by private vehicle also.
Amenities: - resort connected to beach
Cottages with double bed, three bed, Attached commode with shower & tub bath
Hammocks tied between trees.
Free access to recreational facilities like badminton, volleyball, football, cricket, instrument, and carom. Enjoy playing cricket, volleyball, cycling, sand castle making or simply laze on the dec at the beach.

Dolphin show: - Silver sand beach is a small paradise where we have special quests like dolphins & seagulls visiting us occasionally &if you are the lucky one you can meet them. One can go by boat ride to see dolphins boat ride start from 7a.m to 11a.m. At a time 6-7 heads can go for ride for this show have to charge for it.

Sea food :-silver sand is also famous for it seafood. Here you can always have the phrase right in regards of hospitality that is simplicity at its best. The food serve here is special malvani & Konkani cuisine cooked in their traditional
Manner, which you will relish to the last bite .we also
Serves Konkani food like: - walacha birada, alu wadi
Kokam SAR, solkadhi, alu bhaji, dhirde, panagi, prasad of lord ganesh i.e. ukdiche modak, puranpoli, kharvas
& Many more other items.

Beach restaurant, Car parking, and Boiler facilities available at morning & evening. Food: - veg, Non- veg: - Punjabi, Chinese, Konkani, malvani &Jain food available.
Arrangement for conference in open space, music system, stage for dance, campfire.
There are many jeeps & private vehicle, which take you to harnai beach, historic anjarla Ganesh temple, konkan krishi vidyapith, Dabhol port, panhalekaji caves, keshavraj temple on hill & many more place to see around the silver sand.
Check in 12.00noon
Check out: - 10.am

Food package
1000/- Per head per day.
Includes breakfast, lunch, tea snacks, dinner, unlimited food, veg&nonveg, buffet.
Without package extra food will be charged. {E.g. cold drinks, mineral water)
Accommodation: -
Total 17 cottages
5 Family cottages --Each cottage for 5 heads.
1 dormitory for 8 heads.
11 couple cottages (each cottage maximum for 4 heads)
Music system, dance stage, campfire.

*Part or or all of this text stems from the original article at: http://www.beachresortsilversand.com*

Additional travel guides are available in ten languages at [**Wikitravel.org**](http://wikitravel.org)

Page last generated on Sat 10:02
