---
title: "Florence"
type: location
latitude: 34.79981
longitude: -87.677251
---

If you've never spent time in Florence, Alabama, you might be pleasantly surprised at our cultural life. You might also think we were a city three times our actual size! Within our city, you'll find a home designed and later added on to by Frank Lloyd Wright, which was in the original family's possession until 1999. We have a beautiful art museum, which hosts a variety of exhibits and educational programs and a state-of-the-art library that opened in 2002. Florence is the birthplace of W.C. Handy, Father of the Blues, and his home is now a museum; there's also a museum at a Native American burial mound, located near the banks of the Tennessee River. This is not the extent of our cultural life, by far! Our University, our Symphony, our performing arts groups, our Festivals, our historic districts, our thriving downtown and our churches all work to make this a wonderful place to live. We have a strong cultural heritage in Florence, Alabama. Won't you come and share it with us? If you've never spent time in Florence, Alabama, you might be pleasantly surprised at our cultural life. You might also think we were a city three times our actual size! Within our city, you'll find a home designed and later added on to by Frank Lloyd Wright, which was in the original family's possession until 1999. We have a beautiful art museum, which hosts a variety of exhibits and educational programs and a state-of-the-art library that opened in 2002. Florence is the birthplace of W.C. Handy, Father of the Blues, and his home is now a museum; there's also a museum at a Native American burial mound, located near the banks of the Tennessee River. This is not the extent of our cultural life, by far! Our University, our Symphony, our performing arts groups, our Festivals, our historic districts, our thriving downtown and our churches all work to make this a wonderful place to live. We have a strong cultural heritage in Florence, Alabama. Won't you come and share it with us? http://www.florenceal.org
