---
title: "The Shoals - Florence, Tuscumbia, Sheffield and Muscle Shoals"
type: location
---

Florence lies North of the Tennessee River in Lauderdale County while Tuscumbia, Sheffield and Muscle Shoals to the South in Colbert County. http://www.shoalschamber.com/ Tuscumbia is the birthplace of Helen Keller http://www.helenkellerbirthplace.org and the home of the Alabama Music Hall of Fame. This is southern living at its best. This is how life is supposed to be. From the houses on the bluffs overlooking the Tennessee River to the beautiful and historic homes in each city's downtown area, life in the Shoals is full of beauty. Situated on the banks of the beautiful Tennessee River, the Shoals has a rich history in the music industry. We're known far and wide for the "Muscle Shoals Sound." Our community hosts numerous festivals and events throughout the year including the NCAA Division II Championship Football Game. There are four adjacent towns nestled in the hills of northwest Alabama, on the banks of the Tennessee River, that offer their citizens an enviable sense of safety and comfort. But because these towns are so intertwined, the residents here enjoy a quality of life and a variety of activities usually only found in much larger metropolitan areas. Native Americans settled this area long ago, and the Indian Mound museum is located on a ceremonial burial mound near the river. The Festival of the Singing River honors our native ancestry each fall. But our celebrations don't end there. The Shoals is the site for the Alabama Renaissance Faire, held each October, as well as Arts Alive, Heritage Days, the Freedom of America Celebration on the fourth of July, an annual Trail of Tears Celebration, and many others. The Shoals is an outdoor lover's dream. Golfers pick from a variety of public and private courses. The river and its system of lakes offers a variety of recreational activities. Nature lovers and bird watchers find much to enjoy in the area's public parks, camping areas and walking trails. In the spring, neighborhoods come alive with flowering dogwoods and azaleas, and the downtown areas buzz with activity as restaurants move tables to the sidewalk and enjoy another change of season. But there's plenty to do indoors, as well. The Kennedy-Douglass and Tennessee Valley Art Centers offer exhibits, classes and juried shows. Theater groups and dance studios perform; museums offer educational programs. A mix of manufacturing, service industries, retail, medical and financial institutions give the Shoals stability and strength. This is a shopping and medical hub for the tri-state area. The Shoals is the sixth largest market in Alabama and offers numerous opportunities for business investment and enhanced quality of life. The Alabama Music Hall of Fame The Alabama Music Hall of Fame, which opened in 1990, is dedicated to over 500 musical achievers in all types of music. Rock, rhythm & blues, gospel, country & western, opera, and contemporary are all represented here. The Hall of Fame is the perfect compliment to the Shoals, once known as the "Hit Recording Capital of the World" .... Open Monday Saturday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sunday, 1-5 p.m. U.S. Hwy. 72 West, Tuscumbia (256)381-4417 -- Web-Site W.C. Handy Home & Museum W.C. Handy, the Father of the Blues, birthplace is in the Shoals. Completely restored, the blues legend's birthplace houses the most complete collection of memorabilia, musical instruments, library, and original manuscripts from some of his most famous works. Handy's famous trumpet and his personal piano are just a few of the items on display .... Open Tuesday Saturday, 10 a.m. 4 p.m. 620 West College Street, Florence (256) 760-6434 Wilson Lock & Dam Completed in the early 1920's, Wilson Dam was once used as a power supply center for munitions plants in World War l. The completion of the dam allowed a once un-navigable stretch of the Tennessee River, "Muscle Shoals", to become a major transportation resource for the Shoals Area. Later, Wilson Dam became the cornerstone of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Off Alabama 133 North, Muscle Shoals (256) 383-0783 The Children's Museum of the Shoals Our area has several museums. What is unique about a children's museum is that the exhibits and programs are geared specifically to the developmental stages and needs of children. There are 38,000 children 18 and under in the surrounding three-county area. The purpose of the Children's Museum of the Shoals is to further classroom education and compliment existing cultural and educational resources. 2810 Hermitage Drive, Florence (256)765-0500 - Web-Site The Florence Indian Mound & Museum The Florence Indian Mound is the Tennessee Valley areas largest domiciliary mound. It is typical workmanship of the Indians who lived in this area before the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Creeks. Early settlers found steps on one side of the mound, and discovered that it had been enclosed by an earthen wall. The mound could have possibly existed as much as a thousand years before Columbus ....Open Tuesday Saturday, 10 a.m. 4 p.m. End of South Court Street near Tennessee River, Florence (256) 760-6427 The Birthplace of Helen Keller (Ivy Green) The Birthplace of Helen Keller, America's First Lady of Courage, is located in Tuscumbia. Built in 1820, only one year after Alabama became the 22nd State of the Union, Ivy Green is a simple, white clapboard home designed in typical Southern architecture .... Open Monday Saturday, 8:30 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sunday, 1-4 p.m. 300 N. Commons, Tuscumbia (256) 383-4066 - Web-Site Key Underwood Coon Dog Memorial Graveyard Coon Dog Graveyard came into being on Labor Day, September 4, 1937, when Key Underwood buried his famous coon dog, "Troop". They had spent many enjoyable hours hunting in this area, and it was only fitting that "Troop" be laid to rest here. Since that time, over 100 coon dogs have been buried at the site. Off Hwy. 247, west of Tuscumbia (256) 383-0783 Pope's Tavern Once a stagecoach stop, tavern, and inn, Pope's Tavern is one of the oldest structures in Florence. Pope's Tavern was first used as a hospital for both Union and Confederate wounded during the Civil War after a skirmish in the streets of Florence. Later, wounded soldiers from the Battle of Elk River and Franklin, Tennessee, were treated here by local doctors and women who gave unselfishly of their time ....Open Tuesday Saturday, 10 a.m. 4 p.m. 203 Hermitage Drive, Florence (256) 760-6439 Rosenbaum House This home, designed and built in 1939-40, is the only structure in Alabama designed by architect Frank Lloyd Wright, and is considered his best example of Usonian style. Open for tours only by appointment. A National Historic Property. Completely restored in 2001. 601 Riverview Drive, Florence 256-740-8899 or contact thru the Kennedy-Douglas Center for the Arts at 256-760-6379. Belle Mont Mansion The Belle Mont Mansion is one of Alabama's most distinguished homes. It is an excellent example of Jeffersonian style architecture of the early American Republic. Constructed in the early 1800's, the Belle Mont Mansion is known for its high-quality brickwork and contrasting wood trim ....Open for tours April early December on Sundays at 2 and 3 p.m., or by appointment. Cooks Lane, Off U.S. 43, south of Tuscumbia (256)381-8438 or (256)381-5052 Edith Newman Culver Memorial Museum Built in 1870, this historic home features a museum full of period antiques. Civil War relics, Native American artifacts, and the unique history of one of Alabama's oldest towns, Waterloo ....The museum is open Friday Sunday, 1 4 p.m. Call for winter hours. Main Street, Waterloo (256) 767-6081 Overton Farm A project of the Bear Creek Watershed Environmental Education program, this is an outdoor education facility on an old family farm in Franklin County. The farmstead and cemetery are used as teaching tools in the field of social studies. The varied terrain, the wide variety of plants and animals and lake frontage are valued for teaching the natural sciences. There are dormitories and a dining hall on the property. For information, call the Russellville Board of Education: Historic LaGrange Site, Antebellum Cemetery & Pioneer Village Listed on the National Historical Register of Landmarks, this cemetery and the recreated log cabins are all that remain as a record of the town of 395 people and LaGrange College and Military Academy, Alabama's first college. There is a welcome center and a bed and breakfast is planned. The town and college were destroyed in a Civil War battle in April, 1863. The site has been restored by the LaGrange Living Historical Association, which sponsors a festival each May with a Civil War reenactment, music, crafts and more. Off Hwy. 157 in Leighton (256) 383-0783 Dismals Canyon & Rock Bridge Canyon Dismals Canyon in Phil Campbell, a National Natural Landmark, features a canyon, nature and mountain bike trails, canoeing, camping, hiking, swimming, picnicking, lodges and a country store. Rock Bridge Canyon in Hodges is a rustic area featuring natural bridge waterfalls, scenic rock formations, mountain laurel, trees and shrubs and a nature trail. Dismals Canyon - Web-Site 901 Hwy. 8, Phil Campbell (256) 993-4559 Rock Bridge Canyon 1944 Canyon Road, near Hodges Natchez Trace Parkway This scenic highway follows the historic route from Natchez, Mississippi, to Nashville, Tennessee. In Alabama, the Parkway goes through western Colbert County. Maintained by the National Park Service, the Parkway follows the same paths trekked by Davy Crockett and Andrew Johnson. Recreation... The Shoals is an Outdoor Lover's Dream North Alabama is an area of unsurpassed beauty -- a region of natural wonders where you will find miles of riverside parks, communities of diverse cultures, and a treasure chest of vacation destinations. The Shoals area is one of these treasure chests in North Alabama. The Shoals is made up of four cities in the northwest corner of Alabama. The beautiful Tennessee River flows through the cities and gives the Shoals the wonderful leisure water activities and some of the best bass fishing in the country. Come by and visit one of our campgrounds and spend some time fishing, swimming or water-skiing on the Tennessee River. If golf is your game, the Shoals has some of the best golf courses around.
