# Nightlife and Entertainment

*Centralamericathecaribbean > Thecaribbean > Dominicanrepublic > Bocachica > Nightlife And Ente*

As for other night life, there are plenty of discos. I recommend El Partaiso, on the East side of town, which is the first to open. Here you'll see quite a bevy of Dominican girls all dressed to the hilt, hoping you'll dance with them as they wiggle on the dance floor...striving for your attention. A common tactic is to bend over, expose a little panty and give you a wink. If you smile back, she'll casually pass your table and ask if she can be seated. Many of these girls are willing to please, and their reward can be anything from a nice place to sleep & dine, a trip to the North Coast, or some clothes and jewelry. Remember, once you buy a girl a drink, you are hers and she won't allow any other female intrusion. Once, I tried to take a picture of the attractive female bartender, and my girl jumped over the counter and started to rip at her clothes! I just watched with horror and amusement! If any one interests you though, your biggest problem will be where to take her. Since the hotels don't allow a disco or beach girl into the rooms, you have to be creative. I don't recommend the beach at night as some girls will suggest -- they're trying to save you some money (maybe an extra tip for them). The best alternative is the beach bungalows that surround the discos and are perfect for that first encounter -- they can be rented by the hour, day, or week and usually are under $20.00 per day. Even if you just want to dance and have no intentions of carnivorous activities, the girls are overly attentive and curious about you! Here are mostly European men and you'll be one of the few Americans! In case you want to lessen the attention, just tell them your wife is waiting for you at the hotel and you just stopped in for a quick drink. Once when I used this technique the girl said, " no problem, she can watch." Yes, this is an marvelous place!
Late night action

Around 12.30 PM,a the dance action moves over to the **"Main Girl Disco"**. Here you'll find hundreds of tourists from the surrounding hotels, along with local and vacationing Dominicans. Even if you've had a mid-evening quickie, your date will ask you to take her here for dancing & to meet her friends! You can dance the night away or you might even spot a new love! Watching these gyrating girls dance in their mini-skirts and purposely bending over in their lace panties just to arouse you is enough to make you feel youthful again. Even the bar hostesses and female musicians are available for your pleasure. Just make sure your past date doesn't spot you on the prowl and making a new arrangement! Possibilities never end in BOCA CHICA.
Besides women?
