---
title: "Things to do in Hilo"
type: section
---

A visit to Hawaii's Big Island isn't complete without making a pit stop in Hilo, otherwise known as "Hawaii's Little Big City." Whether Hilo is your final destination or you're just passing through, check out the following list for Hilo's must-do activities and must-see attractions.

**Rainbow Falls**

Hawaii's famous Rainbow Falls are so named because of the rainbows that result from the mist generated by the falls. The falls drop 80 feet into a large natural pool, creating an almost supernatural sound of rushing water. The pool is an amazing aquamarine color and is surrounded by wild ginger plants. The surrounding gorge is enveloped in fragrant tropical foliage. In order to get to Rainbow Falls, start in downtown Hilo and take Waianuenue Ave. (the name actually means "rainbow seen in the water") for about 1.6 miles then veer right and follow the signs. To get to the falls visitors will have to hike in, so be sure to bring appropriate shoes. The rainbow effect is most prevalent early in the morning, so this is a great starting point for your day.

**Imiloa Astronomy Center of Hawaii**

The Imiloa Astronomy Center features more than 100 exhibits including a replica of Maunakea mountain underneath the starry night sky, an interactive meteor display, and various planetarium shows. The 12,000-square-foot exhibit hall is one of the first scientific discovery centers on the Hawaiian Islands to incorporate both English and Hawaiian languages. Visitors' cultural and learning experience is enriched by the planetarium, exhibit halls, and learning center. There is also a cafe in case you get hungry and a museum store where you can buy souvenirs. The Imiloa Astronomy Center of Hawaii is open Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. except Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. It is located at 600 Imiloa Place on the upper portion of the University of Hawaii Hilo campus, in the Science and Technology Park. General admission costs $17.50, children's admission is $9.50.

**Liliuokalani Gardens**

Hilo's peaceful Japanese gardens offer a stunning view of Hilo Bay. Paths offer views of pagodas, stone lanterns and lovely bridges that cross ponds filled with koi fish and serene streams. A visit to the Liliuokalani Gardens will make you think you've been magically transported to Japan, and will inspire a sense of tranquility that will stay with you for a long time to come. The Japanese botanical gardens are located in Hilo, along the northwest end of Banyan Drive.

**Hilo Farmers' Market**

Shop for tropical fruits and vegetables, flowers, gifts and souvenirs, and clothing and jewelry in a festive outdoor market reminiscent of Hilo's plantation days. Market stands are operated by over 100 local farmers, crafters and artisans whose helpful cheer is typical of the Big Island. The market is open daily from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. and is a great place to pick up some snacks to enjoy on your drive to Rainbow Falls. Hilo Farmers' Market is located on the corner of Kamehameha Avenue and Mamo St.

**Hilo Beach Parks**

No visit to Hilo is complete without a stop at the beach. Just past the Hilo Harbor is an area with several beach parks including Richardson Beach Park and Onekahakaha Beach Park. The beach parks are excellent areas for sunning and swimming, as most feature cold ponds and tide pools. Many of the tide pools contain a mix of cool, refreshing water on the surface and warmer ocean water just below. There are also black sand coves with a lava breakwater as well as lots of marine life. The beach parks offer picnic areas and showers, and are patrolled by lifeguards.
