---
title: "Practical Information in Southern Leyte"
type: section
---

SILAGO TOURIST INNS www.silago.bizUpon reaching the town center of Silago, one could not miss the new Silago Tourist Inns. Easy check-in with thirst-quenching welcome drinks and the beautiful smiles of the staff make geting here most rewarding.
Silago Tourist Inns is operated by Lisa L. Amoro, owner and proprietor of Golden Infinity Corporation. Amenities and services are made available to guests at Silago Tourist Inns who are here for business, pleasure or simply some time to spare. The new Silago Tourist Inns comes complete with a Front Desk Reception, a Cafe, a Facial Center and Spa, Cable Tv, Aircon and Fan Rooms that meet both guests’ sleeping and budget requirements matched with fresh linens, towels and toiletries upon check-in. Free breakfast is served at the Cafe each morning. Lunch, Dinner and Snacks are available anytime.
Silago Tourist Inns is the best jump-off point to a variety of activities in Silago. Things to do while on a break in Silago does in fact have a lot to offer. White Sands, Island Hopping, Swimming, Diving (your own gear), Jet Skiing, Boating, Rod/Line/Spear/Troll Fishing, Treks, Forest Adventures like Hot Springs, Water Falls, Caves and Camping. All these may also be available elsewhere, one might say. But the genuine difference is the fact that ,in Silago - and its neighboring townships and islands, most of the places you will see are as untouched and undisturbed by unnatural forces. They are as pure as they can get. Here you will experience what both “native” and “nature” truly means. Imagine pure natural coconut drinks fresh from the trees while firing up a freshly caught fish and lobsters cooking in coconut, palm leaves,nutshells and husks to dine over bamboo tables and chairs under a “nipa” hut in the middle of a white sand beach stretch that you get to choose while aboard a wooden¬ “Banca” made of local wood hulls and bamboo outriggers with panoramic views and the pacific sunset in the background. Come to Silago, Southen Leyte for a truly exotic and relaxing experience. The towncenter also offers other services you may require. The local government Municipal Hall and Mayor’s office are just a few steps from Silago Tourist Inns. The local Police and Military station is right in the heart of the town center. The Silago Church is located in the sprawling greens of the Silago park square. The Silago Health Center is always ready for medical services you may need. Globe and Smart communications and services are available in the area. The Silago Bus Terminal is also just a few feet away. The new public market, “sari-sari” stores and general merchandise establishments offer goods and services at reasonable rates. Getting around within the Silago area is easy with “habal-habals” (commuter motorcycles) plying the roads to and from Silago 24hours.

SILAGO awaits....see you soon!
