# Shopping

*Asia > Southeastasia > Cambodia > Shopping*

**Handicrafts** and gemstones are among the most important items to buy in Cambodia. Cambodia's culture of handicrafts originates from the early years of the country's history, from the days when god-kings were erecting the massive monuments of Angkor. The ancient traditions were passed from generation to generation.  Cambodia is widely renown for its beautiful religious carvings, featuring Indian Ramayana and Mahabharata motifs, and its bas-reliefs. Excellent quality replicas are available in both Phnom Penh and Siem Reap. Intricate wooden boxes and other carvings are also used for ornamentation and furniture in Cambodia and are readily available in souvenir shops. Cambodia has excellent silverware of both classical Khmer and Chinese design which can be bought in the main markets of the capital and hotel shops. Khmer silversmiths' craft intricate silver bowls in the shapes of fruits, elephants, deer, wild pigs, fish and goats. Or they fashion fine plates and trays, cutlery and candlesticks. Dancer's anklets, decorated with tiny silver bells are also popular buys. 

 Precious and semi-precious **gemstones** are for sale in the markets and shops. Experts might make some good buys, but it is better to be a little careful since guarantees of authenticity are not so readily available and the cutting of the stones usually is less precise compared to western standards.   Beautiful textiles, made from silk and cotton, woven in traditional designs and tie-dyed, are also available. A traditional and popular item, mostly made from cotton, is a krama, a coloured, checked scarf. In Cambodia it is used for many other purposes apart from wearing as scarf. Silk may be embroidered with gold and silver threads, woven with bold vertical stripes, shimmering contrasting colours, or in ancient patterns of elephant, fish and jasmine flowers. It is made into items like dresses and purses.   Other crafts include basketwork and pottery, which comes in traditional and modern designs.
