---
title: "Nicosia"
type: location
---

Nicosia / Levkosia or Levkosa, like the Turkish people call the city, is still a divided city (since 1974) – there is a Turkish part, that belongs to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and a Greek part. The Greek part of Nicosia is the capital of Cyprus’ Republic and its largest city, which has a population of about 170.000. The atmosphere is modern and traditional, dynamic and calm at the same time. Its without any doubt the most interesting city on the island and very different from the tranquility of the rest of the islands towns and villages. Nicosia is the seat of government and home to all major business. What really characterizes the city is the borderline. It crosses streets, alleys and even houses and gardens. On many corners you will see small bunkers and guard posts, manned with armed soldiers. 



Historically, Nicosia is divided into an old city within the ancient city walls and a new part. But nowadays the political border splits the old city in two. Many parts of the ancient city wall show you, where the city once ended. The inner streets are but narrow alleys; many of the houses are old and protected by law, but very often neglected. A big restoration plan for the old city, which started in 1981, will change the citys face. A small – and now very touristic – section has already undergone restoration: Laiki Yitonia, “neighbourhood of the people”, impresses us now with its narrow alleys, small shops and restaurants and it gives us an impression of what Nicosia looked like three centuries ago. The new city spreads southward, with only an occasional high rise in its center. The suburbs are wide residential quarters, with small cottages and private villas. The main business center is also located there – between the triangle of Stasinos, Makarios III and Evagora Streets. 

Turkish Nicosia, here called Levkosa, is north of the dividing “Green Line”. There is only one border crossing in Nicosia, near the old Ledra Palace Hotel. Cypriots are not allowed to cross the borderline; only tourists can get a daily visa – without bigger complications. It is a somehow strange feeling, to be able to switch the areas more or less easily, whereas locals are not allowed to visit their old home villages on the opposite side for now more than 25 years. The difference between the Greek and the Turkish part is easy to recognize. While the Greek new city in the south is modern and lively, Levkosa is traditional in style and facilities. There are several gothic structures and sights, as Selimiye and the Bedesten Mosque or the Lapidary Museum. There is also a number of Ottoman style public buildings, such as the Arabahmet Mosque, the Büyük Han (Great Inn) or the Kumarcilar Han (Gamblers Inn). For more info see: Levkosa
