---
title: "Festivals"
type: section
---

Sukhpthai Province
Phor Khun Ramkhamhaeng’s Day Festival (or King Ramkhamhaeng the Great Memorial Fair (งานวันพ่อขุนรามคำแหงมหาราช) Phor Khun Ramkhamhaeng’s Day Festival, annually held on January 17. It honors of the Great King of Sukhothai Kingdom. In this day, people will visit to the Monument of Phor Khun Ramkamhaeng the Great for praising Phor Khun Ramkhamhaeng. People will make merit and present food to a Buddhist priest. At the night, there are merrymaking and many shows that all people can enjoy. There are fireworks too.
Song Nam Aui Than Festival Song Nam Aui Than Festival is annually held on April 12, Songkran Ceremony in the SriSathanalai Historical Park. It exhibits the Buddha image procession from Wat Phra Prang to the Historical Park for people who want to pour the water over the Buddha image.
Si Sachanalai Ordination Celebration Si Sachanalai Ordination Celebration is called by Thais as "Buat Chang Hat Siao", held annually during 7-8 April at Ban Hat Sieo, Ampher Si Sachanalai.It features a spectacular procession of ordination candidates in colourful costumer on the backs of some 20-30 decorated
Sukhothai Loi Krathong and Candle Festival The tradition derived from traditional beliefs common to communities living along the banks of a river or waterway. It has become a need to worship and supplicate the Khongkla to avoid bad luck, to worship the gods in the Brahmin tradition, or to revere the Buddha's footprint. The celebrations are normally organized in the 12th month when the tide is high and the air is cool. Sukhothai’s Loi Krathong is held annually on the full moon night of the 12th lunar month at the Sukhothai Historical Park. The Krathongs or floats have been made in the form of lotus. There is also a reference, in the Sila Charuek, to candle lighting and playing with firework in a grand festival believed to be similar to the candle lighting and firework as practiced in the current Loi Krathongs Festival.[3] In this festival, there are Nang Nopphamat procession, exhibitions, lighting of lantern at the historical site, Loi Krathong and fireworks over all waterways, and Krathong competition.
