---
title: "Pandeglang"
type: location
---

Travel Guide

Kenali dan Kunjungi objek Wisata di Pandeglang is the canopy tour one of the vigorous campaign carried out in Pandeglang. Recognize Pandeglang because it is one district in Banten province, Indonesia, where many have interesting tourist objects for your visit. Flanked by Pandeglang District of Serang District in the north, Lebak District in the East, the Sunda Strait to the west and the Indian Ocean in the South. Territory includes Panaitan Island (in the west, separated by the Strait Panaitan), and a number of small islands in the Indian Ocean, including Deli and Tinjil Islands. Ujung Kulon Peninsula is one of the leading tourist attraction in Pandeglang at the westernmost tip of Java island, where there is a game reserve for protected animals one; one-horned rhino is now almost extinct. Interesting is not it, for it was through blogs Pandeglang know let us recognize and visit tourist attraction in Pandeglang.

Approximately 114 Km from the capital Jakarta, visit the District Pandeglang with several alternative routes. Identify the fastest one of them by Tol Jakarta - Merak through the exit of Western Serang, by passing through the capital of Banten, Serang - Pandeglang highway is the nearest route could take the vehicle for about 20 minutes. Along this road stretch identify areas of paddy fields, typical diner food and"saung"or hut for shelter or rest. Pandeglang market will greet before you visit the city center is marked by the presence of Pandeglang Square as a means of socializing sport for surrounding residents. With us identify and visit tourist objects in Pandeglang closer, the more tourist objects in Pandeglang for we know.

One thing is the reason why we should identify and visit tourist objects in Pandeglang is after you visit the city sights Pandeglang is Crag Mountain on background to the west which is one of several other interesting tourist objects in Pandeglang. There is 4 way access in and out of Pandeglang First the Serang-Pandeglang highway in the North, Rangkasbitung highway in the East, Labuan highway in the South and Mount Reef tourist road to the west. This will help if we want to identify and visit tourist attractions in Pandeglang further.

Around Pandeglang city, there is Rangkasbitung, city transit to and from Bandung or Jakarta as an alternative path to reach Pandeglang where there is Railway transportation from Jakarta as a transport option to visit Pandeglang. Rangkasbitung highway no less unique, lots of different stalls and pavilion with snack treats for your special visit with family. Last but not least Labuan city because it is one of the city's economy centers on Pandeglang district. So let's get familiar and visit tourist attractions in Pandeglang now.

CAS Waterpark
Approximately 10 minutes from the town square of Pandeglang invite families to visit water tourist attraction CAS Waterpark Pandeglang Jl. East Cross AMD, Sukaratu, Kp.
Cikole, Kec. Majasari. Recognize this tourism object because it has so many exciting rides such as the Village area Baduy, Alap Alap Baduy, Outer SpaceCar, Outbond and others. CAS Waterpark is equipped with 4 pieces main pool, pool ball Vehicle, Vehicle Pool wavy, Bike Barn Vehicle, Motor Vehicle Kids, Kids FunRide, Tourism Shopping and Accessories. In addition there are objects Culinary Tours, Swan Lake With Floating Warung 25, Area Animal Park, Saung, Building, Park(free for use) and public facilities such as the Small Mosque, Canteen, Locker Room and spacious parking area and comfort.

Cikoromoy
From Pandeglang highway toward Labuan ±12km try to visit the tourist mountain spring Cikoromoy to remove fatigue after a busy big city. There are two entry points to reach the tourist area famous spring in Pandeglang, ie from the direction Mengger Pandeglang-up to the Mandalawangi, before reaching Mandalawangi turn left, or enter from the Sub-Cikoromoy Cimanuk through the village roads that are not too large, becareful on that pathway is often crowded by begging along the road. Cikoromoy tourist baths(swimming pool), located in District Cimanuk, Batu Bantar Village , Pandeglang district. Recognize this place because quite cool, there are two natural pool with very clear water flows directly from mountain springs Pulosari. Clean water is frequently used by people around to irrigate the fields, keeping goldfish, tilapia, mujair, gurami and others. All around the pond is up a lot of places to eat where the menu offers a la sunda, special menus are very inspiring traditional tastes, such as gurami "bakar", fried fish, vegetables tamarind, pepper "angeun", and others. The fish was still fresh, because it directly from the local pond and immediately processed on the spot. In addition to the objects of the natural pond, outside the established tourist sites are also two other bathing pool, one managed by local communities and others managed by Disparda Pandeglang District. At Cikoromoy area also try to visit other tourist attractions, namely the Quran Stone Pilgrimage. This place can be reached from the direction of Pandeglang through the entrance Mengger line, before we enter Cikoromoy area, on the right area with a little down the valley.

Citaman
Approaching tourist visit Labuan Citaman, natural baths and archaeological sites with beautiful scenery all around. Citaman itself is a megalithic pool, located on the slopes of Mount Pulosari, Sukasari Village, Sub Menes, District Pandeglang. In the pond there are several kinds of stone mortar (dakon) and foreign ceramic shards. This pool is divided into 2 parts one part for men and one section for women. This pond is about 350 m2. In the megalithic era, this pond is used as a place to purify themselves before performing a ritual in which "goong" stones were. Batu Goong Citaman site located west of the Kadu Hill, Mount Pulosari. Based on research showing stone objects Goong, Citaman site is a complex unity of culture and period. At the site visit is also an object "Bergores" stone, besides that it also found pottery shards, instantly recognizable among white ceramic oldest comes from the late 16th century AD. There were also fragments of the expected area of the 9th century AD. It is said that, according to local residents every "maulid" night goong rocks produces a sound resembling the sound of the gong sounded to one village.

Discover the region closer have citaman tourist eternal wellspring Cikajayaan. This spring is one of the sources of water that is said is believed to provide success and glory for whom to drink it. This source is located not far from where the stone was and ponds goong citaman or is between them. Also at the same time visit the site object hole in the stone. Know the stone with a hole in this complex because it is a relic of the time of Hindu - Buddhist and formed by the dripping water from 8 roots hanging from a tree.

Pantai Carita
Passing through the town towards the North Labuan not forget to visit tourist attractions other beautiful, Carita Beach. Recognize this beach because it has a base material of white sand with a slightly brownish and Mount Anak Krakatau on the background . Located on an alternative tour route Cilegon - Labuan road, Carita can be achieved through the Jakarta-Merak Toll road and exit West Cilegon gate. Carita Beach has its pros and its own charm, but is rich in tourism culture. Carita Beach also relies on her beautiful, distant, and offered a million tourist charm sea and tourism that can attract natural whoever visitors. Visit the area at the edge of the Sunda Strait is due to become an alternative for urban residents and the surrounding areas to release the sense of fatigue after a week doing routine activities. Here, visitors can conduct various activities such as swimming in the ocean, fishing, playing Jetsky, banana boats, surfboards, beach volleyball, boating, or just sit
