---
title: "One year of sport"
type: location
---

It's the reign of cyclists, divers paradise and a "neverending trail" for trekking fans. The Island of Elba is the ideal location for sports enthusiasts and those seeking an active holiday. It offers the perfect combination: nature, sea and sport. Thanks to its mild climate in spring and autumn and its uncontaminated natural beauty, the island satisfies both fans of extreme sports and more laid back guests. Everybody can partecipate in the many outdoor activities, surrounded by crystal seas or in the shadow of imposing cliffs. Numerous species of fish inhabit the fascinating seabed and natural grottoes - all that the most demanding scuba diver could ask for. Fat bellied sails and silent canoes criss-cross the sea caressing the most well known beaches. The best way to venture along pathways and wooded trails is on foot, horseback or mountain bike. From these vantage points you will be able to discover small villages hidden in the maquis and fully appreciate the fragrant vegetation surrounding you. Whether you want to test your limits launching yourself off a cliff with a glider or rock climbing the island's many peaks or if you want to spend a relaxing day on the golf course, you will find all you need in the well equipped centres. Even those of you who are beginners or out of practice can try out some type of activity under the guidance of able and professional instructors. Tennis, horse riding, canoeing, diving, cycling, golf, rock climbing, skills or simply . whether you want to relax, improve your just have fun: Elba awaits you!
