---
title: "Basilica of Sant'Apollinare in Classe"
type: location
---

Sant'Apollinare in Classe is situated about 5 kilometres from the centre of Ravenna. It was built in the first half of 6th century, financed by Giuliano Argentario for Bishop Ursicinus; it was consecrated in 549 by the Archbishop Maximian and was dedicated to Sant'Apollinare, the first Bishop of Ravenna. The façade presents a portico under which there are marbles and inscriptions from the church. The door jambs and architraves of the main door are in Greek marble. Above the portico there is an elegant three-mullioned window. Along the left side of the church the tall bell-tower rises with its cylindrical form (post 9th century) and ascending series of embrasures, single, two and three light windows. The interior, divided into nave and two aisles which maintains the fascination of its ancient splendour, has twenty-four columns of Greek marble with transversal veining, surmounted by capitals and dosserets and with the sumptuous mosaics of the presbytery. The bowl vault of the apse is fully occupied by the majestic figure of Sant'Apollinare with his arms in a praying position, in the middle of his flock symbolised by twelve sheep in a vast and flowing flowery valley surmounted by a symbolic representation of Transfiguration. On the upper register of the arch, in the middle, there is a medallion with the haloed portrait of Christ. On the sides, immersed in a group of many coloured clouds, there are the symbols of the Evangelists. Numerous marble sarcophagi (from 5th to the 8th century) stand in the two aisles, offering a nearly complete overview of the early Christian funerary relief and on the evolution from the plasticity and realism of the early sarcophagi to the allegoric representations, with increasingly flattened relief, of the later ones .
